4 ContributorsCortez vs. A. Ward Lyrics
I remember it like it was yesterday, World Domination 6, fight night
I stood on this same stage in front of Franchise under the lime lights
And put my heart and soul in it
Cause I knew they were givin' me a shot
I told the world I strive to be Christ like
And then like Christ, after day 3 I ascended to the top
Now we here, the main event, cameras out, no excuses
In front of this exact same Canada crowd
A nice jab, ya life flash, the punch damage ya scalp
They lose faith, Bruce Franks, Ooops, you probably should've ran for the House
What else?
I'm more than, a born sinner, I let the Lord enter
It's been a long road and still got a short temper
The core winner, punch when done it hit Cor' center
He get dropped early with the socks now he a rewards member
They hit my inbox hype like, "'Tez a test"
New killer, old target, this Weapon X
I never rest, facin' these lines got him a Death Note; treble clef
Staff behind me, they pitched Ernesto, let's go
What we speakin' about in the third? Is it my faith?
My race? How I live out in the burbs?
Whatever topic you got, I planned how to come at you
Against ICE you said you "wanna talk to the future"
Speak up now that he's standin' in front of you
But I don't see this as a favor, I see this as favor
Cause your career is at the road block
You just lost the title match, beat Twork but still gotta beg for a N.O.M.E. spot
I'm the draw here, in this battle it's my bars they gon' watch
And everything I need'll (needle) be stuck in this joint
Y'all gon' see how I'm givin' Cort' his own (Cortisone) shot
Word play...Ward play
Ever since I came to the Six I been a starter, I ain't playin' the bench
Every move calculated, I do it the best, you in distress
Miami Hurricanes, what that gotta do with the rest?
Well your turn over (Turnover) for the Chain and now I got you at my neck
You wishy washy, they only gon' wish he washed me
But this a body, growin' up I had to beat the system, it's Atari
I got the drive, while this cat in the back; Ricky Bobby
I can easily flip to homi's, trigger finger itchin' on me
Unload, reload, switch the laundry
I got a different...
You wishy washy, they only gon' wish he washed me
But this a body, growin' up I had to beat the system, it's Atari
I got the glow without the bling, you don't see any on me
But I can easily flip to homi's, trigger finger itchin' on me
Unload, reload, switch the laundry
I got a different kind of wisdom instilled, the mission Godly
So when I get to ICE the pen sticks to the goal that's Sidney Crosby
I'm nice!
I rap better, back peddle, Cort' you ain't half me
The team better, scheme better, Gully got some athletes
The pen different, Ben Simmons, 'Ganik wanna draft me
First round in the bag, this finna get NASTY!
You might also like
My last battle was a chain of events
Red jacket with the zippers I'm only here for a Thriller, it's time I wake up the dead
They said the crowd, "Sleepy" Hollow thoughts had me takin' off HEAD
Cause I see E (ICE) as the champ, so now it's only right I start takin' off heads
Who we got?
A rap nerd who match words who look calm and deadly
Well  add verse cause every aspect I'm adverse
I'm carnage, deadly, target empty
Call, cause to get even, I set the bar, though the odds are heavy
Cause ain't shit we gotta speak about, ask Hollohan, bitch I killed GOD already
Who the fuck we got? A Christian rapper?
What's that about duke?
If I flash back and erase his (racist) past when I blackout too
It reminder you of Hollohan at Blackout 2
Plus you praise a white Jesus, meanin' your religion took the black out too
I got him mapped out smooth
At God speed I've lapped Earth in a Flash
Me, I'm a superhero, I track dirt then kick up dust as I victory lap backwards
It's absurd, you don't know who I am?
Quotables after quotables fam'
You're only here cause, ya price negotiable, you probably only go for a grand
He's the dude in Linkin' Park, now hang it up cause this was suicide over a band
You're dyin' in the ring for rivalin' wit' a king
I'm a Terminator, the targetin' (target in the) eye wit' the beam
First it's Judgement Day then it's Rise Of The Machine
This is practice, still sparkin', I'm a blacksmith
You'll see more tags on his bag than at Sacks Fifth
I'm active, see, the moves are calculated, the tool? Is like an abacus
I be marchin' with the pole (poll) in the streets, I'm an activist
An adjective to describe Aaron and ummm "average"
Dead, get beat for a second time he's Lazarus
I'm out to kill the alpha the omega, the alpha male
You can't measure this amount of skill on any mountain still
Nigga I'm still sittin' at the top mountain still
Cause I broke it down, bagged it up so I could give the fans every last ounce of real
And you still can't amount, sit still
Shit I was on Facebook last week, let's see if the boy remembers
You know we was all in the Talkback group and there was a kid over there trollin' members
He hit up A. Ward, he was like, "Cortez gon' kill you my nigga" and he was hype
And out of spite you replied to the troll, "You said I'm white"
Yikes
Cause that there is the wrong agenda, strong dilemma
He wasn't mad he said I'd kill you, you was mad cause he called you a "nigga"
My nigga!
Boy it figures, every day I'm online and them trolls be @in' me
All these hidden undertones though it's so disparaging
White boy, your true colors got exposed apparently
And that's why I'm here so I can Trump him with that closed mentality
He wasn't dissin' you, he was showin' love, get it right
He like, "Nah, nah, nah, don't call 'my nigga, you know I'm white."
Oh since he called you, "My nigga" you was tight
Well that was ignorant, and since he called you a "nigga" that he was right
And like I said, I appreciate you reachin' out, but wait til' round three, there's some shit we gotta speak about
My rebuttal game crazy, he said he killed GOD
Before you did, he had some words for ya last round
We he said, "Let it be light"
Then, you said you got all these guns, and you really don't look like the Heckler type
To be honest, you look more like the hesitant type
In other words, you real clumsy with the cans like Trevor tonight
They said I couldn't touch Cort' (court) lines, this is suicide, huh?
I'll smoke you and whoever taught you to rap, two can die
Bruh, have you both hooked up oxygen tanks; scuba divers
And I'm prayin' you and ya teacher got a will (wheel) like student drivers
Bro, you lost to Head ICE twice! How's it feel to be dusted?
No, better yet, how does it feel to have the word Cort' (court) in ya name and still not appeal to the judges
The irony, takin' this, you should've had better judgement
Cause I don't drop the ball on cam'; Devin Funchess
Angles, jokes, schemes, setups, punches
And they gon' to work on Cor' (core) like a set of crunches
NYB? Murder Ave? That's where you stand in the yard?
The trap, where everybody got keys like the family car
The bodega, the cociana, you mixin' up the grams in the jar?
What about little Cortez? Does he know what kind of man that you are
The hunger, the consistency, this is how you fortify position
The custody, the weekends, I know you sorta kind of miss him
Ya third round vs Hollohan, yeah you demoralized and dissed him
The hypocrisy, the music you make off money that glorifies addiction
I can't rock wit' that
I'ma let you be you, a foul person
But y'all know that it's King Of The Dot, Bullpen, Smack, he's out searchin'
For a new home, starvin' for attention
Malnourished
It's been four years since Total Slaughter and you still out here couch surfin'?
You see, you can't integrate with this inner greatness
I'm innovative, so watch me Em'barrass this Brooklyn cat, I'll Renegade him
If Cort' take action, it's litigation
You don't intimidate me, my pen amazing
And you ain't up to par Cor' (parkour) I'm flippin' crazy
I'm ready for the darkness, aye 'Ganik, get out yo' phone
This yo' lil' team? Light bars, I got a couple Tay Roc(k)s for these Philistines
Sometimes in life, you got a Trevor that Swaves, say what you really mean
And Ness out with Math, to do what? Get 'em Chilla scheme
But wait, if y'all ain't finished, it's prolly cause I ain't finished yet
What that means is you gotta teach the old folk in a jack then blackout with punches to get 'em stretched
I've been a threat
You should've picked a different sport or somethin', heavy punch
Kevin Dunsh, you ain't missin' Cort' (court) for nothin'
Picture me and you in the pit, boy that'd be a dog fight
This two piece don't come with a large Sprite
So keep ya guard tight
I start winnin' see Math itchin' throw in a hard right
The rules off, all y'all see is a chair fly across Cort' (court) like Bob Knight
Go ahead, spit yo' out of context, white Jesus, blah blah blah multis
Hopefully battlin' me makes you better
Round
I seen you battle out in Cali, you know the one you did between P and A you did ya thing
But this here's ya retirement plan, that's a P&A
You're soft, jelly and made for a bitch; T&A
But if you cross me God bars, I'll carve a T in A
And bring the impact to the ring
Get it? T&A
I mean we know you ain't a killer, you couldn't match wit' DNA
So I guess they think C average after gradin' D and A
But after this performance you gon' have to give C an A
I don't know what y'all see in A cause he only put in work with scrubs, that's a CNA
Wordplay at its best
Who creepin'? You speakin', the tool reachin'
I'm the Abado to sazon I'm too seasoned
I don't like you, why? Cause he pussy
And...cause he pussy, that's two reasons
I'm leavin' ya crew leakin', them bullets spread like germs when the nose blow, it's flu season
I am cut throat, hostile
You are humble, gospel
Cut throat, I be hittin' that bag harder than a Lush One nostril
We drove here with the straps, fuck Canada laws
I brought the steel (steal) overseas like I'm LiAngelo Ball
And that's why you dude's fed
Cause I'm makin' moves, you know with that cuckoo bread
Team Gully, I'm only here to leave you dude's dead
Even you too, I came here with two 2's lead
A cast of battle rappers to get Bodied once I leave everything on YouTube Red
I'm the guy next I'm warning you, try to flex I'm warrin'
My mindset's distorted to divide flesh and tore him
Slice necks and pour 'em
I whip 'em like Pyrex 'til the pie stretch I'm ballin'
Cause I'm workin' with a prize (Pras) like Wyclef and Lauryn
Nigga you second rate, never late, I put a fork in him
Buck 50 I get 'em ate
Now he's cooked with his cheek leftover, oh that's the second plate
Dude's act sketchy so the lead can sketch his face
I wave sticks, then buck it (bucket) in the crowd; collection plate
That was CRAZY
I don't know what kind of match is this
Ya pen was flawed but this is blasphemous
Then tryin' to match men with gods so tell A. men they gon' have to carry a amen, now make amends wit' God
Boy, I thought you was gonna be one of the best
The up and comers, one of the best for sure
And then I seen it, there's no content
When I dissect ya bars, there's no substance, Joe Buddens
Y'all get it, we all see he ain't Complex no more
So like I said, I appreciate you reachin' out
But wait 'til round three cause there's some shit we gotta speak about

I said it's apparent that you very thirsty, go ahead and drink some more of that water
You think I'm supposed to believe that you got guns over the boarder
When unfortunately we couldn't even 'Gunn over the boarder?
Third round is supposed to be the closer, right?
Well this where it gets so gritty
My brother Kannon told me, "Always stay strapped up if you ain't walkin' around in ya own city."
I said, "Whoa man. Charron scam. They checkin' heat at the door
There's no blickeys, and I don't do gun bars."
Then realized for the first time ever I got a Shotti and a Krome wit' me
That Shotti is from 7 Mile where bodies drop, they love triggers
After the slug hit ya, you lose and I leave wit' the...

Dub nigga!

That chrome (Krome) a .44 Magnum, good from a long shot
I got it from...
Aye bro where you from again?

Montreal

Montre- I bought the chrome (Krome) at a pawn shop
It's registered in my name, the serial number good, no trail or prints
And like you half the time it stay in the vault, but this head shot outta self defense
Look, you made the boy wonder, why you wanted this free smoke
Two rounds, I done heard God in ya angles, but what about guardian angels? Cause you gon' need both
You told B. Dot, you "can't eat books for dinner"
Played the street card like some cool guy
Wool eyes, that mask got (mascot) you consumed like school pride
Tell me, if that's the case, then why is it the hunger I had in the classroom made sure that I had full ride?
Now I eat off that and I eat off rap, I got it from the mud
My mother had dinner for five kids to fix, life wasn't sweet
Mental illness had her pullin' pills out and my father's breath always smelled liquor-ish
The difference is, I don't say all that to act better Cort'
And the reason I got faith in God can't just be explained in a battle rap metaphor
I got the same questions as him
Often times I look up at Heaven, puzzled and defeated
I'ma be honest wit' you
Sometimes when I say, "God is good", on the inside, even I struggle to believe it
It's transparency, authenticity, it matters to the fans
You keep a drum, I keep it a stack, lets have a battle of the bands
You on the king's turf
Facin' Cort' on this soil, I make him eat dirt
I'm the underdog, I duck a swing first
The right up front, the left behind, I'm 'bout to leave Earth
Flee hurt, his fee just took a hit, that's a cheap verse
Real (reel) lines put the kid in the sky, that how a DreamWorks
I'm outta character, I need church, like a weeks worth
My head not in the right place, it's like a breached birth
I left the pen' lookin' for murder, they freed Surf
I wanna tell you somethin', A. Ward draw A, nah palindrome, reverse
I just get him cracked, then send him back to Smack wrapped in his Al Kapone t-shirt
I'm nice!
I ain't come to get personal wit' you
But I brought enough bars to body you and anybody person that's with you
So tell 'em, "Fall in line"
And until then, God is good
(All the time!)

That third round was cute, it really wasn't nothin' to stress
The irony, you jump in for him, but last battle you wasn't even gon' jump in for Quest
Now like I said, I appreciate y'all reachin' out but this is round three and there's some shit we gotta speak about
A. Ward is with a group called YTG
Combined the group can't even crack him a million
NuBorn peaked then still couldn't crack through the ceilin'
Bonnie got put on front street versus Ness Lee
Cause apparently she stealin' and what did you do?
Did you hold down ya clique?
Huh? Did you hold 'em down or did you switch to avoid 'em
Did he whine (wine) or break bread? I'm tryin' to figure out what the ministry taught him
I mean you left 'em flat it turned ya back and then you switched to the Horsemen
So you're Peter The Apostle, you denied ya bros, got low once you heard that that chicken was callin'
Hold on, wait one second
Now it's the 4 Horsemen he's wit' huh?
Let me guess, Street Hymns is Arn Anderson?
I mean, I know, who gives a fuck?
Plus he's never been an enforcer in the streets they hem him up
He doesn't even sell tickets, his image is off, he's finished and washed
The fans don't give a shit anymore
So he is Arn Anderson
(Why?)
Cause he never sold out and every time he's in the ring it's the littlest draws (drawers)
Let me guess, who else, who else is in the clique? Saga?
Saga, right? Saga?
He's gotta be Curt Hennig
Always smackin' his gums thinkin' his rap's perfect
Nah, he's Curt Hennig cause he needs to throw in the towel, he dead on this rap circuit
He let Smack down, they don't think that this match worth it
But then he got mad, fuckin' hypocrite, talkin' 'bout Smack jerked him
Nah, nah, nah
And let me talk about Loso, nah, nah I ain't gon' lie that boy is hot
But if y'all tellin' me Loso is Ric Flair, WHOO! That's where the bullshit gotta stop
Cause he's more like Brett "Hitman" Hart, not cause he's a sharp shooter wit' the shot
He's Brett Hart cause every move he learnt in the ring he learnt it from his pops
And then there's you
All the potential all the essentials
Ya vision was clear then you left YTG and started dissin' ya peers
Breakin' ya neck for a chance to start snappin' and even cripplin' careers
I mean wait a minute, you ain't a savage threat, you're average best
Left YTG and had me vexed
All this for a chance to rep
So you are Chris Benoit, you willin' to kill off ya own fam' just for a chance to snappin' next (necks)
Team 'Ganik for the win, I had pressure to beat him
But when you use Christianity as ya crutch, boy that's a lesson for heathens
Cause you're a god fearing man, right?
Well that blessin' is misleadin'
Chris Benoit, another dead man who couldn't wrestle his demons
I got a new slogan bitch
Fuck you fakes, corny, y'all keep doin' what ya do
But stay the fuck away from me
It's Brooklyn, all day I keep it trill for that
Toronto, lick a shot for PH, the realness is back1Embed