8 ContributorsHouse in Virginia Lyrics
Karen been with Joe since she was younger, though (Tsu)
House in Virginia
Paint it so clear
Picasso

See, Karen been with Joe since she was younger, though
Down to ride, he wasn't that nigga, but she loved him though
Didn't have the nicest whips and couldn't cop a bungalow
Had faith in him, knew that one day he would bubble though
See, Joe was determined to make a flip
Late baggin', early trappin', risked his freedom on the strip
He had bills, wanted some new wheels and some other shit
In a world for his girl, I think he did it for his bitch
But Karen was tired, she had needs
Where her heels? Where her bag?
Wanted Giuseppe, wanted weave
Five years of comin', can't tell him you wan' leave
Barely wanted to tell that man about his seed
Abortion will play it strong
Termination and don't tell him, shit just kinda felt wrong
But was she really able?
Part time couldn't cut it and Joe wasn't stable
And them grams on the table barely took care of the cable
They say it's supposed to be the perfect fable
Joe was goin' through a drought
Like every time he pressed the gas a speed bump took him out
Ain't wanna borrow from his man
Shit, the blocked fucked up, it's like 40 for a gram
Hated to see his boo stress
Tryna stack a few pennies 'til he meet a new connect
Karen and Mekka shoppin', besties since 5th grade
Roll dogs in high school, never ever split ways
They only had one rule: you never let your bitch fade
Mekka kept the mace close, Karen had the switchblade
"What's goin' through your mind? You look sick
Joe did it? I don't know why you put up with this shit
I'ma only keep it real, girl, listen to your bitch
It's a Paid in Full world and you deserve a Mitch
Tall Kwah got these heels, I ain't asked
Just gave him a lil head, imagine I give him ass"
Mekka was about hers, couple niggas smashed that
But you know how the story goes, she yellin' "Where the cash at?!"
They went to leave, well, Karen wanted to leave
She was just about to say it then got pulled by her sleeve
"How you doin'? My name Kway
Sorry for pullin' on you, I seen you the other day
On Bergen by the Halal and you was wearin' grey
But I won't let you get away today"
Said he won't let her get away today
Let her get away today
"So let me get your number"
"Nah, give me yours"
She wasn't a dummy nor no silly whore
Never cheated, but you never say never
What Joe don't know won't hurt him, it was time to do better
See, Karen knew exactly who he was
Kway from cross town, be gettin' money, he blood
Got an all black Range, act a dummy in the club
Be fuckin' with the dope and got his hands on the bud
She seen him the other day, too
But real bitches always play it cute
"Make sure you use my number, Karen"
"Aight, cool, I got you later, boo"
Now, Kway headed to the trap, to the cash
Ain't really worried about nothin', take a pull and he ash
Go getter from way back, he got it from his Dad
But fuck that, he thinkin' 'bout light skin with the ass
Had the hood since big homie got locked
Was stackin' double since his wifey got knocked
Phone ring, "Who this?"
"What's up, Kway? It's Pop
Got your number last week, I be trappin' by the shop"
"Oh what up, Pop? Your older sister tells me cool things
Heard you a trap star, and got a cool team
Tell your whole squad it's new management, a new team
I'ma bring a chicken through, some biscuits, and a few wings
But rule 1: don't play with me, and rule 2: don't owe me"
Pop felt like he hit the jackpot
Was thinkin' about stacks, shit he couldn't wait to tell the homie
And weeks later, Joe and Karen in the bed
She was layin' on his chest, his hand goin' through her hair
"You good, bae?" She smiled
Joe knew better though, think he was in denial
"You know when I get right, we gon' get right?"
But Karen closed her eyes, bit her lip tight
What happen when the gettin' right ain't gettin' right?
And she barely happy with the dick at night
His phone rung, it was Pop
Pop was Joe right-hand from the block
"Ayy, what up though?"
"Nigga we good"
"What you talkin' 'bout, nigga?"
"Just meet me in the hood
Matter of fact, throw somethin' on, I'm comin' down the hill
Just met a new connect and shit 'bout to get real
Would have told you last week but I wanted to seal the deal
Just get ready, Cuz, I'll be there in a lil"
Karen phone vibrated when Joe's did
Luckily he got up, close shit
It was Kway, they been textin' for weeks
Even paid her phone bill and Benihanas to eat
LeBron, size 6, surprisin' her with sneaks
Hit the city for some drinks, she ain't even let him beat
"What you doin'? (Nothin')
So you free? (Yup)
Well, throw somethin' on, I'ma pick you up"
Joe came in the room, "I'm 'bout to slide"
Karen was gettin' dressed, had to make up a lie
And the lyin' where it all start
"Bae, I'm 'bout to run with Mekka out to Walmart"
The horn beep, Joe hit the street (Yo)
Tired of bein' puzzled, Pop had the missing piece
Drivin' through the hood talkin' bands
Joe could only see millions while Pop told him 'bout the plan
"And you know we need a new connect
The nigga Kway from cross town, he got it on deck"
Threw a brick up on his lap, deadass check
Throwin' them like hot cakes
"We gon' make that shit stretch"
"More where that came from, let's get it in
That nigga want like 4 off of every 10" (What? That's it?)
That nigga want like 4 off of every 10
"Man, that nigga want like 4 off of every 10"
Bimmer pull up, that's Kway shit
From Karen room it look like a spaceship
She wanna smell good, spray shit
Black legging pants, Charles Barkley's, the gray shit
Small jacket, messy bun and her phone
Take a selfie for Instagram and she gone
See that's probably when it happen
But a picture worth a thousand words, add your own caption
He push her against the wall, he aggressive
Rippin' on her V-neck, popped the new necklace
Fuck it, he bought it, wanted her shit, he ain't sweat it
She tuggin' on his Gucci belt, he unbutton her 7s
That car ride happen fast, right?
See, they was textin' 'bout fuckin' since last night
She was screamin' "Kway" while he hit it from the back
Light skin, shit fat, he rather not wear a strap
"Who pussy?" (Yours)
Karen on all fours
Joe callin' her phone while she call the Lord (Hello?)
And flip her over on the other side
"Do what you want, Kway, just don't cum inside!"
Damn, it's fucked up, ain't it?
Even the grass on the other side tainted
A real picture, I just paint it
I can't tell you where to hang it
Five months later felt like a long time
Shit was straight for Joe, a long grind
Early morning hunnit packs, all winter long johns
40K saved, 20 spent: that's what I call grind
Karen red bottom game tight
Heels every other week for the wife and it was light
Two, ten max, no keys, all white
Pushin' heavy weight, connect had niggas right
Everything butter like Parkay
They even moved a few Xs up the Parkway
And Joe still be in the street, but
When you gettin' chips you can't piss where you sleep
Now let me tell you 'bout his joy
Karen broke the news to him and he was havin' a boy
Wanted to name him Kobe or after his dad
Yeah, after his dad, his dad Troy
Now Pop and Joe was in the trap
Watchin' the lil homies finish up the packs
All morning, coolin', smoke a blunt and just rap
How they started from the bottom, made somethin' out of scratch
Car pull up (Who this?), tinted, some gray shit
Joe reach for the strap, Pop stop him, "Yo, that's Kway shit"
Kway hop out, lookin' like he winnin'
Two chains, Rolex, Diddy bop, grinnin'
He was makin' his rounds
About to pick up 15 and drop off another pound
Smooth like a breeze
So as fast as you seen him be a fast as he leave
And Joe was always strapped, Home Depot
Look at Pop, "I forgot to ask, where you meet bro?"
"Kway? Well you know my sister December?
She was fuckin' with him since as long as I remember"
Then the feds hit the hood, ironic, '02 December
Did a super mean bid, some high max in Virginia
Remember I told you December gettin' paid?
Ten bands a month, mall trips for days (Yeah, I remember that)
I swear that nigga Kway
Paid her off a 100 stacks and gave my sister AIDS"
"Word? That's crazy bro"You might also likeEmbed