2 ContributorsBeat Goes On Lyrics
Where I'm from, clubs are for losers, country bums, clueless youngens n' cougars, drunk dudes, dummies n' whores, and who the fuck fucks with the music ? Clowns know the bouncer - High five G. They’re showing off tats in their tight white Tee. They've been to the gym and hope dimes might see, like « which bitch ain't down to fuck a guy like me ? » And bitches got them bimbo looks. Men gone push then throw hooks to get up in a nympho's bush... Uh! These silly jerks are real alert, finna flurt with any girl with curves that twerks in a mini skirt... Shit´s too predictable : It's quarter passed two and ain't shit to do, cause every bar’s closed… I just laugh and shrug, and head to that one, wack ass club

Club night : Spot is fucking packed, hotties looking dumb, bopping to the tracks, drunk fools queue up to cop another jack... Me ? I'm judging everybody from the back (and the beat goes on... and the beat goes on...)

Here's what I can't put up with : Rookie DJs and that pull up shit. (Pull up...) Pull up, shit... It's been a minute and you should have quit, with that very fake vibe, I think you should never play live. We've heard family affair from Mary J Blidge... twenty eight times... I suggest you play Fela, play Nas, some merry J-five ! Surprise the folks... I really don't get it. Nobody wanna hear hits and radio edits… and you ain't spinning no records. Your phoney mp3 mix, it ain't getting no credit... I just wanna sip a brew, but every other bar's closed and ain't shit to do... So I put up with it, I just laugh and shrug... and spend the night in this wack ass club

Club night : Spot is fucking packed, hotties looking dumb, bopping to the tracks, drunk fools queue up to cop another jack... Me ? I'm judging everybody from the back (and the beat goes on... and the beat goes on...)

I might vomit and trip, I might fall in a ditch. I've got a wife at home but I might follow a bitch. Why fall in a trap ? Why always get pissed ? Why drink one last drink... I ought to resis and I've gotta admit, I like swallowing cris, but why bother buy a bottle of piss, for five dollars a sip ? Why empty my wallet for this ? I'll always end up wanting more like Oliver Twist. Spending twenty minutes, frustrated, waiting in line... (It's just a waste of time...) You think you bout to get in, but the bouncer won't make up his mind... (It's just a waste of time) Spending half your paycheck to get a drink with a friend (It's just a waste of time...) You bought a shirt to get in, but know you'll never wear it again (It's just a waste of time...)
[HHok
Club night : Spot is fucking packed, hotties looking dumb, bopping to the tracks, drunk fools queue up to cop another jack... Me ? I'm judging everybody from the back x3 (and the beat goes on... and the beat goes...)You might also like1Embed