5 ContributorsFamily Name Lyrics
Welcome, you have just accessed
The Akashic Records Genetic Information Division
This program is required for those wishing
To obtain a marriage blessing from the Kingdom
When you wish to begin this program
Place your right hand on the scanner
And tightly clench up your butt cheeks
As you might feel a slight electrical shock
Please, select the race history you desire
You have selected African American, this is your history

First of all, the term, black and white is a fallacy
It simply is another way of saying, this or that
Let's examine the term, this or that in its ultimate form
Which is, this means the truth or that which is resistant to it
When a minority realizes its similarities on a higher level
Not just black but people of color and higher, still indigenous
And even higher, still from the tribe of and yet higher
The rainbow children, when this understanding comes
The so-called minority becomes a majority in the wink of an eye
This action will cause a reaction or resistance
The source of this resistance must be banished
As it is in direct conflict with the initial action
It cannot be assimilated, for its very nature is resistance
In other words, one cannot serve two masters
You are either this, or that which is not this
You might also likeEnd of part one, to continue, select the program
Family name and type in the current government
Name you wish history on

London, England sometime in the early 1600s
We have the God given right to run out of our colonies
Anyone who does not bow down to our law, hear, hear
Come on, come on keep it moving here, what's your name boy?
Abu Cah
Well it ain't now, it's Tom Lynch

Mirror, mirror what you see?
Have I still got those dark clouds over me?
Or am I really feeling what I feel?
The last days of the Devil's deal
Mirror, what you see?

Devil, devil, what you know?
You been here since 1914 but now you got to go
You been hiding behind corporate eyes
You want to war but you can't fight
Devil, you got to go, yes sir
Bridge
You might say, "What you mad about?"
But you still got your family name
Pleased to meet you, Mr. Rosen Bloom
I'll be John Blackwell just the same
What's your family name?

Teacher, teacher what you say?
Did we really come over in a boat?
Did it really go down that way?
Or did I arrive before you, ruin Thanksgiving Day?
Teacher, what you say?

Preacher, preacher, is it true
That Jesus wants me to give my money to the likes of you?
Ride around in your Lexus Coupe
Drive us to the cleaners in a pinstripe suit
Preacher, that ain't truth

To the bridge
You might say, "What you mad about?
But you still got your family name
Pleased to meet you, Mr. Pearlman
You can call me Clay
Can I play?
People, people what's your name?
Maybe, we should start all over
Let everybody get in the game
Put up a one gloved fist
Make a sound, Violet Brown

You might say, "What you mad about?
You still got your Family name
Pleased to meet you, Mr. Gold Struck
We found this tape in the Akashic records
This is Thomas Jefferson
My fellow Americans, if there is a just God
We're going to pay for this
Black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics
We'll be able to join hands in the words of the old Negro spiritual
Free at last, free at last, thank God Almighty, we are free at lastEmbed