3 ContributorsFrak vs. Soul Khan Lyrics
Now, we gotta talk about a whole long list of wack shit that ya done
So everybody buckle up for Frak History Month
For a lot of folks here, I'm the first battler that you ever viewed
And now I'm here to make sure this is the last one that you ever do
There is so much that I never knew
The fuckin' pathetic moves ya made to get ya lights and revenue
I am here to incinerate every single tracе of ya slimy residue
Motherfucka, I'm thе end of you
Dizaster had some things, and he said to you that they need adapting
But I did a little Frakround check and instantly reacted in disbelief
But please believe when I say all this fuck shit really happened
But first I gotta say, this is gon' be the only time you ever see me cappin'
{puts on yarmulke}
Hold up, he real dismissive 'cause maybe he thinks he can outdo me
But best believe, bitch, you will never out-Jew me
{speaks in Hebrew}
Let's fuckin' go
You will do anything for a bag like counterfeit leather
Now your life's in jeopardy like a blind pedestrian surrounded by Teslas
You see, no matter what Frak might write, it's bound to be clever
But bitch, you'll never match my stripes even if we were in Auschwitz together
"But he has angles"
Oooh, angles
Bitch, I hope your angles are the most angular angles you ever wrote
Because bitch, the angles of mine and quotes are a Bengal tiger with both of its fuckin' fangs inside of ya throat
And I don't need angles, I can just go to direct, man
My shit is a fatal blow that'll overload ya dullest senses
I am so relentless, you gon' feel like I drove a fuckin' Lexus through ya solar plexus
But if shit gets so offensive that the kid wants trouble
I seriously recommend you keep it hip hop hustle
Because if you want to mix it up, I'll put ya shit on shuffle
Have ya X-ray lookin' like a jigsaw puzzle
Speakin' of tryin' to make pieces fit you piece of shit
Diz' called you a Zionist
That means "an Israel supporter"
You deny the shit but further inquiries in order
It's real (Israel), no pun intended
Bitch I have broken down and researched, basically everything you talk about a lot
So if you're not a Zionist
Then why is it that you literally never mentioned Palestine?
You might also like
Yes, I have

No results
"Gaza" no results
"West bank" no results
There's a trend here isn't it?
Palestinians are facing ethnic cleansing as we speak
You're never in the street
But how the fuck can you mention genocide in a fuckin' tweet?
Bitch, let me say this, as Jews it's an obligation to oppose the shit
But you ain't even postin' shit, are you?
Say, "Free Palestine"

Free Palestine

Say it with your chest little Hebrew, say it

Free Palestine

See, he's all hesitant
Cause he don't really talk about what happens in the West Bank or in Gaza cause now a days he's afraid of scaring the potential corporate sponsors
You never be using your platform so whatever you think he stands for, entirely fake
You know what you got in common with the Zionist state?
Both of you were a fuckin' giant mistake!
My greatest weapon's my heart like Azuka Midoriya
Bitch, ya dressed like a narc at the school from Euphoria
Everything you do is corny, I mean what you actually still rappin' for?
The best you'll ever be is Frak Lethal or Fraklemore
But let's talk about that graph of yours
You remember the graph
Y'all remember when Dizaster shredded the graph and
Frak cleverly extracted a second attack
And then had a punchline that was related to Math
But the thing y'all really remember is the graph
Right, y'all remember the graph, right
Queue the Undertaker music
Cause that graph went viral
It gave him pumped and played his music, helped him cultivate his movement
Shit, I was even proud as if you were my favorite student
That graph idea was great, right?
Yeah, cause I fuckin' gave it to him!
I got the DM's right here bitch
Frak I am not an opponent that you can fight
Cause basically I gave you your biggest moment of your life
So regardless of the garbage that you kick to me Frak
After today you will never get your dignity back
But, away from you...
Yo Rone, I heard you flirtin' with me baby
Last night we heard it
Listen, I know you were a King Of The Dot
But boy...look but don't touch
Cause these inches I got I guarantee will crush your boy pussy to dust
Thank you very much
I said yo, it is free Palestine, I don't support Israel, doomsday included
But you comin' out as bisexual, was that your two-state solution?
I said yo, and that Auschwitz bar was a perfect cliff hanger
Stop actin' like we're oppressed, we not up against a German dictator
Our ancestors were Wu-Tang, they Enter(ed) The 36th Chamber
Aye, but he remembered how to rap {claps}
You even pulled a few flows
You were cooking too bro!
(Look at you go!)
Look at Jew go
I knew some fans gon' hate on this shit
The “SJ double Jews” as a co-main event
But nah, this is old bay and biscuits versus no flavored chicken
This is, don't play the victim versus gold plated privilege
This the dope on the counter vs the cocaine addiction
Khan, we not the same, every snowflake is different, listen
They only gone react, cause last time you were here, you needed CPR training
Fuck seeing stars, Diz' had you seeing Stars of David
Thank Pat, Organik, and me for being all patient
Cause we givin' Soul a second chance like reincarnation Embrace it
At the Diz' battle I said, "Jewish pride. I'll take his side."
I even stayed till it ended...all day and night
First round they were like, "WOO! Khan taking flight!"
Second round they were like, "Shit. Maybe Kanye was right."
I mean, bro you were out there rapping at Ted Talk speeds
And you died in that third round, we were like, "Let Khan breathe."
Killed by Diz, killed by A. Ward, now the bets on me?
This must be what Kanye meant by Defcon (Death Khan) 3 Dawg please
That battle lasted 40 days, that shit lasted 40 nights
We watched a Jew die for 3 hours like The Passion of the Christ
My grandma lived through the Holocaust and actually survived
She watch that battle and said, "This is the worst thing that happened in my life."
Yikes
As a Jew, that battle was my personal 9/11
Look at the way it hurt us all
Everything that could do wrong, did go wrong, Murphy’s Law
I woke up to a burning cross
Chic-Fil-A stopped serve sauce
A bunch of Jews converted saw 'em worship in the church and mosque
It pissed Kyrie Irving off
It’s the reason Bernie lost
The Holocaust no longer German’s fault, they remodel the Berlin Wall
John John was like word is bond
In Wuhan a person coughed
Mind you all of this happened before y'all got your third verses off
Word to God!
Bro, your name's "Noah", Noah...that's who you were titled after?
Well you bring shame to the ancestors, the Torah, the Bible's chapters
You career arc got washed up inside the rapture
But one thing Noah’s supposed to do is survive disaster (Dizaster)
But it's Frak Hoffa
So this is how do the Brooklyn do?
Every time I look at you
I wanna put a fist, knife, bullet or a foot in you
I was so tired of the way you made 'em look at Jews
So I stepped up and beat Diz, shit I did what you couldn’t do
Look at you
I took a Jewish man’s Mitzvahs and updated it with bars
I’m beyond Soul Calibur, I put a blade into your heart
They had a vet on the minimum and traded for a star
Kyrie going to the Mavs, this a changing of the guard
You never had bars, your whole pen is lame
Two bar setups with internet jokes thrown in the fray
Your style like them kicks in the old NBA
Cause souls (soles) worn down, and Khan (Con)verses don’t hold up today
So aye, don't try and father me like Warbucks, like your Lux
This the first battle I ever had where I’m more buff, so lets warm up
Get this ab work, your core cut
Or it's Purgatory, Soul stuck
Take the small slice, shortcut
Or the long road, tour bus
Either way Soul get split seven ways like a Horcrux
Or what?
Lost to A. ward, couldn’t roast a Christian
And he’s a ginger; Soul was missing
Give me space; social distance
All these Marks can get it; Socialism
Baow! I’m in pole position
Woww; Owen Wilson
Paramedics at your door tryna like save Soul like Jehovah's Witness, listen
You high on coke if you think you letting firearms ago
This shit'll go right thru Soul (sole) like Zion's toe
You told Ward you could do parkour in Rockport Oxfords
Right on bro
Well Pat taught me to moonwalk with steel toe boots on
Translation: we slide on Soul (sole)
Time
Now my bi-sexually isn't something that I will often rap about
But, my real two state solution is taking your girl ass to mouth
He was like beatin' his chest about beatin' Diz', he was really feelin' himself
But you just admitted in my last round that you fuckin' needed my help
Okay fine
Well when it comes to music I know you're versatile of course
But you know that imagination of yours ain't very fertile resource
But the style that you rhymin' with isn't personally yours
You just copy what's poppin' then do it worse and really forced
See, I listened to his tracks, y'all don't get very far
And this is how Frak sounds on every song on every bar
{Does a high pitched mumbly impression of Frak}
Bitch you listened to my music as a child
Bitch I bet in your mind you think you sound like you're Kendrick Lamar
No you sound like a toddler that was left in the car
You only measure your art as an investment for some gains
Like how you made that project with song titles of celebrity name
In hopes they would notice it and post it online and propel you to fame
And now he's just been reduced to stealing other rappers songs without a second of shame
For instance, he just dropped a song called 'ASMR', that's just what I mean
Cause that's something that 21 Savage did in 2018
"21 can you do somethin' for me?
Is there nothin' Frak won't do for money?
I've been on your Instagram and your girlfriend is ugly"

Nooo! Oh my God she's beautiful!

See I sustained a fanbase by relatin' to how they livin'
You're just a yappy Pomeranian chasin' an algorithm
Is it worth goin' viral bein' a forgettable chill?
See you and Gregory Poe remind me of Ellie and Joel
Cause you're his surrogate child who will never be Ill'
(Y'all watch Last Of Us, right? It's a good ass show.)
By the way, that ain't the first shit that Frak's stolen before
You know, you'll stay incredibly cocky
Given the fact that even in your approach to Diz' you plagiarized Oxy'
And then, by the way, that ain't the only other thing he's stolen before
Your wedding angle with fuckin' Danny, that was Charron vs. Ward
But, from June to June sorry to say
You 'bout to be cremated
Ironic he's a teenager, he majored in creative writing
But it seems they never told him in order to be creative somebody had to be the one to actually create it
And it gives me no joy and no pride
To silence this boy but I have to do it with the voice of a Goliath like Keith David
You know gargoyles 
I know this shit is live but when you replay this
Probably make the same faces 
Bitch I keep it real while he shapeshifts
See, people hear my name and they think of certain classics
Like when they seen me versus Madness
People hear your name and they think "Burrito vs. Sandwich"
I gave this culture my sweat and it's felt to this day
While you owe it a debt that you will never repay
What you do is this, his whole marketing plan, this is what he does
You repost your battle clips on TikTok, leeching for millions
But you don't ever tag or promote the leagues that actually fuckin' film them...like ever
But if it was a cartoon from your jackoff, fuckin'- jackoff channel
I bet you'd be sure to tag the fucking Rap Off battle
Because that's the only fuckin' money that you makin' from
I wish the next time you have an asthma attack you inhale your fuckin' tongue
You ungrateful fuckin' scum
See Illmac and Pass get a pass because they've been actually contributing
But these cartoons of you are fuckin' plastic and gimmicky
For the cheese you've made a fuckin' craft (Kraft) look like a laughable industry
This shit is the worst since the Epic Rap Battles Of History
Wait, you do that corny shit too don't you?
Well, finally, I understand how I can accurately liken Frak to fracking see
See, this is how you do it
Because like fracking Frak extracts from the scene
Without any regard for the damage it leaves
 for the gaps that it needs
Bitch, I brought fans to the scene
You brought no one in
You think the shit's a stepping stone? I'll cave your skull in with it
Are you a backpacking nerd or Andy Samberg, decide on one
Motherfucker, you like Lonely Island, I hope you die on one
And by the end of the next round, by the time it's done
The only gas you'll be wishing for is Zyklon, son

When you thought of that Last Of Us bar did you press "shift" and "send"?
This is like the Last Of Us the gay man kills himself in the end
And you know what? That fracking bar was decent but paid a price
Your frequency ain't as right
Maybe you're the one who's been fracking cause all these years you've been secretly laying pipe
I love the fact that you're bisexual
You came out as Bisexual? Make some noise {claps}
Way to lead your life… equal rights
Then I remembered you asked Diz' for a kiss...Jesus Christ, is he your type?
But of all the homophobic shit you said, nothing was better
Than, I quote, “It's no wonder "Fresco" and "Faggot" have the same number of letters”
Wow, what a simple, genius way for stuff to get measured
Why do we even need public defenders?
"'Gunna', 'Guilty', same number of letters. Put him under forever."
We can even learn things about ourselves, our lovers, their gender
Wait..."Soul Khan"…"Bisexual" (gasps) it's all coming together
An old Jewish man coming out, you have my respect for you
But what does that make you? Rabbisexual? I remember you
On that Grind Time run, you were dominant, viscous
And when you were being homophobic, woo! You really knew how to conjure an image
I'm talkin' hot guys, locked eyes, in all the positions
Even then I was like, "Huh...these scenarios are oddly specific" But I get it
The same gay slurs over and over, you were finding the fine line
Knew the truth deep down, you were bi tryna buy time
Wanted to be oppressed so bad you were blind to the by lines
You put the menorah in minority, and Grindr in Grind Time
My guy!
When you came out, you said, "Since childhood I've known about my sexual preference."
Just covering it up from the inside like September 11th
So when you battled Fresco you were talking to yourself in reflection
And all that homophobic shit was at best a deflection of the inner-self you neglected
A weapon you kept for protection like the second amendment
You won those battles by being loud with your pent up aggression
But that’s not the reason Grind Time listed your Strength as "projection"
But question
When you came out the closet - that must’ve been a whirlwind dawg
But then I come to find out you have a girlfriend? Pause!
Ayooo, no hetero, but that's what you about?
How many times have you even sucked dick?

About 4 or 5

4 or 5? I’d say 3 because the Dizaster battle doesn't count!
Woooow!
See coming out the closet was your perfect way out
Like, "How could I be homophobic 10 years ago? I’m gay now!"
Exposed yourself before we asked like a perverted 8 Mile
Knowing in the future you’d be canceled like a 30 day trial
Just cause you're bi now they forgive and forget today?
Tryna pull a Kevin Spacey like, "It's alright fellas. I'm gay."
You built your audience off all of this, the intentions were plain
You came out the closet, ya skeletons stayed
Back in the day, you were the homophobic GOAT, now you wanna go bi?
And he wants forgiveness for his past, but view it from both sides
Imagine Hitler on trial like, "Adolf, why did you ruin those folks lives?"
And he's like, "It's chill guys, i was Jewish the whole time."
Bro why
Cause you said you were progressive back then and all those bars exaggerated
So he didn’t believe what he said he just want the crowd to praise him
Your biggest moment ever was a file with a parking violation
It makes sense. he did it all for validation
Face it
The first to do a background check on a battle rapper, collecting refunds & receipts
Like a parking ticket on QP proved he wasn’t as street
On Twitter all day it's, "Defund the police"
But in battle rap, bro he was the police
Sheesh, the battle rapper traffic cop, this fool was tapped in
At the parking lot, watching QP as he backs in
Nitty said he wants the smoke, "Sir is that a wax pen?"
Pulled up to Twork's whip, "Sir are you strapped in?"
Snitch boy!
He's an innovator, Khan (con) is an artist
Kyd Slade, Ahdi Boom this is where all of it started
Snitch boy! They say they don’t tell a Soul because he’ll call the department
A con (Khan) was a cop the whole time, like the plot of Departed
But I got it
But I got a file in my hand!! Yeah this shit fell in my lap
I did research like you, just to dig up your past
And what's in here could make your whole career end in a crash
And I only brought one, cause I knew he too bitch to ever rip it in half!
When I open this file, this gone put him under some pressure
"Soul Khan" and "Policeman" have the same number of letters
Time

Did y'all know that Frak's half Latino?
Well at least that's what we know
At least that what he goes around tellin' people
So they don't think that he's just some bland, average gringo
But...mijo
I'm really sorry I have to break this to you
I know that your mom came from Peru
But both of her parents are Romanian Jews

One is

One is, okay okay

Overall phenomenal research though

But that means they're white people, right?
But I didn't bring that up to embarrass ya
I mean, maybe there's a second Romania in Central America
It's....Romania
Let's check real quick, nope, still in Europe
So it's been determined you're as Latino as me bro
You're as Hispanic as 'Ganik
I mean, in his head he might be thinkin', "But, but, but she was born and raised-"
Motherfucka, if I flew out of a white vagina in Shanghai, China that doesn't make me Asian
This needs no more explainin'
Alright dude?
You're a white dude
Not Bad Bunny, you're Dwight Schrute
Every Frak History Month ends with an important holiday
It's in honor of a young man named Jordan Holloway
He was Frak's biggest fan and he totally existed
And he loved to say supportive shit like, "Homie you're the shiznit."
And his favorite thing to do was hearin' things that you quote
So let's take a second to break down some shit that your wrote
Frak said...on his song, 'Draymond'...you "got more bodies on cam' than a racist cop."
What in the Iggy Azalea, make it stop
Now, besides the abusive use of tragic imagery
The real rap epiphany that shocks and amazes is that....
Sayin' "racist cop" implies that there's a cop that's not racist

Like you

Do y'all...wait, is there a cop that's not racist?

You! {laughs} My bad. My bad. My bad

I mean, if you callin' me cops, but kill all the laughter
I was standin' like 50 to a 1,000 against a rally for Blue Lives Matter
I reached my fuckin' safety, you stayed home like a baby
So stop calling me a cop before you need someone to take you out of the fuckin' venue and I'll break all of your legs dude
Do not call me a cop. Do not call me a cop. That's real shit bro

Noted

Thank you. Sorry

I gotchu

It's traumatic if you will. Alright. As if there isn't a racist cop, right? There is a racist cop
But, see the reason I just think it's funny you sayin' that dumb shit
Because your breakout battle was all about racial justice
Y'all seen his battle with Coma?
I'll summarize of those of you that didn't

He did some amazing research

He focused on privilege and the racial disparities of the way people are goin' to prison
But the one thing that fucked me up was when you told him that he chose his condition
He chose his addiction
Bitch, that is how I know your existence was always sheltered from harm
And you never saw one of your homies with a belt on his arm
Or never worried that they were fuckin' dead or just slept in their car
Or worried that they OD'ed and you were a fuckin' second too far
But I guess they don't make a TikTok character for that
See, life done gave me lemons and planted some ghost peppers
My mother's got cancer my daddy's a cult member
So that's why when you joked Danny as a father
Man, that man works way harder than any dad that I've known ever
Your dad for example...write's children's books, that's fuckin' sweet as can be
All my dad did was give me PTSD
But I guess there's no TikTok character for that
Bitch, I wouldn't even be here if it weren't a charitable act
Even if it was a 
You about to see me snap like Derek Jeter's bat
This a  vs a lighter with the kerosene attached
Comparin' me to Frak, apparently Frak is embarrassed to be Frak
You hide behind the barrier of characters you have
To keep us all distracted from the character you lack
And I ain't even gettin' to the ugly punchlines you had about shit like Chadwick Boseman's cancer growin'
Or how you use Black Lives Matter as promotion for 'Macaulay Culkin'
You're fuckin' singin' while the rest of us were actually at the protests
Gettin' sprayed, peppers, maced, tased, arrested
Man muthafucka, you know how I promoted my shit during that moment in history?
I fuckin' didn't
And that's why we're fuckin' different
He's a fuckin' idea for a rap contest, a Rap Off contest and I don't even want it tagged
It be like this, "Frak's willingness to do anything to get a check"
{Soul Khan cuts his round short}

I took this battle on some positive shit
I took this battle to thank you, for letting me know that anything is possible
I learned a lot from you
Cause your career was my blueprint...of exactly what not to do
See all my successes are lessons you taught to me
Don't go unlimited rounds with Dizaster, stop at 3:00s
Don't act above battle rap for nine years, mock the scene
Come crawling back as soon as your career lost some steam
Don’t give up on the music, don’t rhyme off the beat
Don’t fool the fans out their money, that’s Khan's (Con) artistry
See Noah got washed up but Moses parts the sea
I’m the evolution of Soul like R&B
Come on my G
This isn’t some shot, so don't try to approach me as master
You're rounding forty with no prospects, not even close to a rapper
Right now, this is the moment you matter and I'm closing the chapter
So passing your legacy down to me, is the only way Soul been a factor (Sole benefactor)
Ask him
So then he tried politics, ran for District 45 congressman
As a Democrat, but the Bi part of him is bipartisan
But then the media started roasting him and he called it quits
Who you…the electoral College Dropout? I know Khan (Kan') is pissed
The New York Post found your old battles, old tweets, they posted all of it
It's funny, your politics won't let you make it in battle rap, and your rap battles won't let you make it in politics
See he had a Mid-Term crisis, couldn’t get the comments out his conscious
He was closing up the Cabinet after coming out the closet
You were supposed to run too, but you said, "Fuck you, I’ll count my losses."
We supposed to run the media, you let it run you…. out of office
I promise
He dissed Kobe the day he died like you, don't give a fuck
But deleted his Twitter the next day, when folks lit him up
See when his feelings are stressful and the roads getting tough
Its a deal w the Devil, Soul give it (given) up
Listen up
Why do you deserves forgiveness for your old days
But people who aren't you? No, they can’t grow nor change
It's like the movie Coco cause Soul gone fade
See Karma’s just like you...it goes both ways!
Okay!
He quit battles, quits elections, quits making records
Quits Twitter, anything where he can’t take the pressure
Rest in peace to Pat, the greatest ever
A legacy that they'll remember
Cowards leave when it gets tough, legends Stay Forever
So whenever, you said you changed as a person, I don't believe in that shit
When you still out here using the same deceitful tactics
Your whole A. Ward battle was Jesus, Catholics, Easter baskets, priests and Baptists
The same stereotypical shit, through your new beliefs reimagined
Same shit the tweets he’s drafting
Wreaking havoc in your reading glasses yelling at neo classists and eco-fascists
Cause your ego fragile and you need reaction
It's just the same way of talking down on people, reenacted
It's just the intellectual version calling people f--
Bleep it Ganik
But you really think you're this different person from the Grind Time? Shit I’m not hearin' that
But if you are, what would the two of you sound like in a mirror match?
See that Soul Khan like, "I’m the original fucking Jew."
And this Soul Khans like, "That language makes me uncomfortable."
And that Soul Khan calls you an "SJW"
And this Soul Khan's like, "How dare you! You're insufferable!"
And that Soul Khan can't stand you, "Who let this cuckold through?"
And this Soul Khan don't recognize 'em, like, "What’s this coming to?"
And that Soul Khans is standing right in front of you
Like, "I'm Soul Khan you silly bitch who the fuck are you?"
That was my last bar but I'ma add one more cause I thought you did really good
So, I think you coming out was for Pat, it was your way to say bye (bi)
Mazel tov on living your truth, and in the words of Pat Stay, gay prideEmbed