5 ContributorsDream of You Lyrics
Dream of you, dream of you

It's close to midnight
That's 87 minutes past my bedtime
(10:30 p.m., sharp)
Can you hit the big light?
Right now the only movement I can make is rapid eye
(I’m talkin' 'bout REM, rik-a-chik-a)

Throw? Alpine fur aesthetic
Pillow? Hypoallergenic
I’m falling under, falling under
(Lovers under covers)
Oh, now I'm hypnagogic
No, losing grip on logic
Ironmonger, big cucumber
(Small spelunker, ooh)

And when we fall asleep, I dream of you
I'm rocking in your cradle
(I dream of you, dream of you)
You always force me to be the bigger spoon
So I make you the ladle
(I dream of you, drеam of you)
My dream, dream, dream, drеam, dream, dream woman
(Sleep so well, we can do it with our eyes closed)
My dream, dream, dream, dream, dream, dream woman
(Sleep so sexy, even the bed's taking off its clothes)
You might also like
The foam of memory
It holds the shape of you in my bed when you leave
(Reminiscent sponge)
And also annoyingly
It recalls the time when I spilt ketchup on the sheets
(This mattress holds a grudge)

You say it's weird that I sleep with socks on
Excuse me for trying to keep my hands warm
Emotions heated, motions heated
(Things are heating up now)
Why did I eat a whole wheel of cheese
An hour before going to sleep?
Fromage fever, fromage fever
(Cheesy nightmare, ooh!)

And now I fall asleep and dream of you
And your legs are made of gravel
(This isn't good, isn't good)
You’re in the gift shop at Colchester Zoo
Mud-wrestling with a camel
(I’m so confused, so confused)
My dream, dream, dream, dream, dream, dream woman
(Oh, God, now my teeth are falling out)
Nightmarish dream, dream, dream, dream, dream, dream woman
(Giving a TED Talk with my trousers down)
Wake up in a cold sweat
Feel relief that it's all over, baby
I’ve got you right by my side
With your skin so soft
And legs so gravelly

Oh, God, I'm dreaming still, and now I feel
An ominous sensation
(It's chemical, chemical)
How could we tell a dream from what is real?
Is this a simulation?
(What’s illusion? What is true?)
Is this a dream, dream, dream, dream, dream, dream, woman? (What if I’m just an NPC in a videogame?)
Is this a dream, dream, dream, dream, dream, dream, woman? (What if aliens planted time-seeds in my brain?)Embed