14 ContributorsVanity Lyrics
I'm not cocky
I just love myself, bitch

Mirror mirror on the wall
Who's the flyest bitch of them all?
Never mind, I am (That bitch is so fuckin' pretty)
Yeah, I am (If I were her, I would kiss me, mwah, hey)
Mirror mirror on the wall
Hit up Prince Charming
Tell him, "Give me a call"
Never mind, screw him ('Cause I found somebody better)
Never mind, screw him (I make myself so much wetter, wetter, wetter)

Every day I see myself
I love me even more (It's me I adore)
Ain't nobody got shit on me
I'm the best for sure (My cherie amore)

V is for vanity (Yeah), every time I look at me
I turn myself on, yeah, I turn myself on, yeah
V is for vanity (What?), thank you mom and daddy 'cause
I turn myself on, yeah, I turn myself on
Get into it
See Christina Aguilera LiveGet tickets as low as $64You might also like
Mirror, mirror on the wall
Who's the sexiest of them all?
Never mind, I am (I am, oh, she's so hot and sexy, ha)
Yeah, I am (That's right, no, no wonder she's cocky, ow, huh)
Mirror, mirror on the wall
They call me stuck up, but I'm not at all
Never mind I am, I am (It's not my fault I'm the shit)
Yeah, I am (Uh), and I'm a bad ass bitch

Every day I see myself
I love me even more, it's me I adore
Ain't nobody got shit on me
I'm the best for sure (Are you ready for me? Ow)

V is for vanity (Yeah), every time I look at me
I turn myself on, yeah, I turn myself on, yeah
V is for vanity (What?), thank you mom and daddy 'cause
I turn myself on, yeah, I turn myself on
Get into it

No regrets (No regrets)
Get into it
No apologies (No apologies)
Bam bam ba bam, bam bam ba bam
And now I take myself to be my lawfully wedded bitch
(Bam bam ba bam, bam bam ba bam)
All the girls say, "Yeah, I'm vain, so what, so what?"
All the boys say, "Yeah, I'm vain, so what, so what?"
All the girls say, "Yeah, we're vain, so what, so what?"
Everybody say, "Yeah, we're vain, so what?" (And what? Ow)
V is for vanity (Yeah), every time I look at me
I turn myself on, yeah, I turn myself on, yeah (What?)
V is for vanity (Hey), thank you mom and daddy 'cause
I turn myself on, yeah (That's right), I turn myself on
Get into it

If the shoe fits (Fits), wear it bitch (Bitch)
If the shoe fits (Fits), wear it bitch (Bitch)
If the shoe fits (Fits), wear it bitch (Bitch)
Read my lips, mwah, I'm a vain bitch, hey (Haha)
Can't love no one else, 'til you love yourself
And if they don't like it, tell 'em "Get in line"
And kiss your ass, bitch (Mwah)
Love you, baby (Au revoir), that's right
Let's go out like this

Mirror, mirror on the wall, who's the flyest of them all?
It's me, bow down, get on your knees
Where's my queens? Who reigns supreme?
Let me hear you scream (Woo, ow)
And the legacy lives on
Going strong (Haha)
Let us not forget
Who owns the throne?
"You do mommy"2Embed