1 ContributorVIVA EM BEM-ESTAR Lyrics
Bop bop, ooh
Bop bop
Bop, ooh
Ooh, bop
Samba, samba
Este pendejo penso que me iba a ver la cara de pendeja no papito conmigo no pues nadie te dijo que yo te puedo hacer llorar hasta la ultima gota de sangre.

Samba all up on the floor, do you want some more?
Who walking through the door, never seen her before
She take my hand, I'm the man, obrigado
She lead the way, for today, I just follow
Get it booking like Monte and Sango
Mamacita, rita, te gusta tango?
Why they looking at us side-eyed like Rango?
Look at the footwork, unchained, Django
Braziliana yellow dress like a mango
I know that you don't speak my lingo
But you a star baby girl, you the Ringo
Ring leader from Ipanema, wanna meet her
Need a feature, she from Rio, no frio, she love Jesus
When I'm dancing with her, I just feel freedom
Por que estou feliz? Ela é a reason
Tchau para o frio, é o summer season
Get it from the front, shaka-shake that bum-ba-dum
Olhe para você, looking like a sugar plum
Got me tongue-twisted, got me going dumb
Been dancing so long, my feet going numb
Viva em bem-estar, that's what they saying to me
Ooh you looking too good in that two piece
Let's get it kicking like Bruce Lee
You never been here before? You could have fooled me
You might also like
Bad thing shake her hips so sexy
Why you walking like that, so vexing
Don't tempt me, or I might have to go and
Get a lil' crazy on you baby, I'm just saying, what I'm saying?
I ain't playing, I really go super Saiyan
What my plan? What it be? Baby it's just you and me
Living in the wellness, I felt it, one two, one three
I been out before on my own, ah
I know how it feel to be alone
But tonight you got me in my zone
I'ma need some ice and patrona
(Not that I be drinking, I just be thinking, about you, about)
Bad mamajama like you on her own
You a queen, need a throne
I'm always posted up for you like Malone
This fiesta cooling baby, let's just go home
But then you say to me, to my face
"Só mais uma dança, eu prometo. Então podemos sair"

One more dance and then we dipping
One more, and we dipping
One more dance, then we dipping
One more, then we dipping
One more dance, then we dipping
One more dance, then we dipping
Then it's time to get to the, ha
Girl why you fronting like you ain't the baddest girl on the scene?
Baby you run the whole thing
Looking like something out of my dreams
First saw you I fell apart at the seams
I be quiet, not too confident, but honestly I saw you and I
Knew I had to meet you, so I came up here to greet ya
So the reason that I be here, and the lights up on the street
Is the girl from Ipanema, ah
She the Brazilian bombshell
Will this last forever, only the time tell
But right here, right now is for dancing
So give me some action
Movendo se-com muito passion
Cameras be flashing
But you the only one I can imagineEmbed