12 ContributorsDesperado Lyrics
Uhhh, this is weird!

Yeah, rollin' through the city with Lege Kale (With Lege Kale)
Ayy, niggas want the swag, that ain't for sale (Not for sale)
Uh, momma want to know how I make money (I make- )
Tell her I've been flipping t-shirts through the mail (Mail, mail, mail)
I'm attracted to the pretty lights (Lights, lights, lights)
Want a pretty bitch, want a pretty wife (Wife, wife, wife)
Fishin' with my- uh, I'ma see who bites (Bites, bites, bites)
O. J. with the gloves; get a grip on life
I fee, fi, fo, I beast, I go hard (Woah, ayy!)
Gold bars, thirsty niggas so parched (Woo!)
Rocking Pendleton, TJ Henderson, he’s smart (Pendleton, Henderson)
Fine young gentleman, collect dividends, free park- (-Ing)
I know what I want to be, I ain't even gotta rap
This shit still a masterpiece, make her, "Uh, na, na, na, na"
Yeah, I’m like Master P
Got me sneezin' all your bullshit, fuckin' up my allergies, have a seat (Woo!)

(Yeah!) People tried to tell me, "Grow up!" ("Grow up!" Ayy)
Now I do a show, they go nuts (They go nuts, ayy)
Fuck doing the shit they told us (Yeah)
Young nigga eating at the table with the grown ups (Yeah)
I’m a desperado
Every time they see me, they can’t help but go where I go (I go)
They just wanna be me, but they’ll never know that floss, though (Floss, though)
You talkin' all that bullshit, well, we need that money pronto (Yeah)
They’ll never know what I now, call me a desperado (Yeah, woo!)
You might also like
I've been getting worse with my manners (Yeah)
She said she love me, got no answer (Yeah)
'Cause I don't really got the time to reply
If you want to date, get a planner (Now!)
All this shit on my calendar (Calendar)
Catcher in the Rye, J.D. Salinger (Salinger)
The phonies want me on that humble shit
I’m like, "Here comes a new challenger"
Swingin' my sword, young Link, yeah
Captain Yellow Coat, I need me a mink (Yeah)
Running circles is for Urkels and gerbils (Gerbils)
I don’t really like to roll at the rink (Roll at the rink)
Would be broke if I could care what you think (Yeah)
Watch me wax on all these wack-offs (Wack-offs)
Niggas mad, soft-eatin' bath salts (Bath salts)
You ain’t Batman, take the mask off (What?)
Mott’s with the sauce (Sauce)
You point, I get mine across (Mine across)
I just show up, watch them throw up
Because I’m the final boss (I'm the final boss)
Married to game, but fuck the fame
I call that bridal cost
With that tidal in the title
Your survival is a toss (What?)
You rendering, pending, and I come and finish it (Woah)
Benefit from my sentences and penmanship (Woah, ayy!)
Sensitive, would you quit it the Krillen shit?
Adrenaline wit, villainous, nemesis, sentiment (Woo!)
Venomous, killin' it, revive the body, begin again
Diligent militant, not innocent since that Genesis
Fucking degenerates, your future is imminent
No Malcolm's on my team, I cut out little middlemen
(Yeah) People tried to tell me, "Grow up!" ("Grow up!" Ayy)
Now I do a show, they go nuts (They go nuts, ayy)
Fuck doing the shit they told us (Nah)
Young nigga eating at the table with the grown ups (Yeah)
I’m a desperado
Every time they see me, they can’t help but go where I go (I go)
They just wanna be me, but they’ll never know that floss, though (Floss, though)
You talkin' all that bullshit, well, we need that money pronto (Yeah)
They’ll never know what I now, call me a desperado (Yeah, woo!)

How come every time I'm not around
You talking shit, huh? (Talking shit?)
How come every time I bring the sound
She on my dick, huh? (On my dick)
We been with the shits
I'm in the system, hit the switch (Yeah!)
The way my team stay stuck on winning (Yeah!)
Got me feeling like I'm Clint (Eastwood!) (Yeah, uh)
Watch this story unfold, yeah (God damn!)
Youngin' cold wit' these flows, yeah (Oh man!)
Might as well call us "Midas Gang"(Yeah!)
'Cause everything we touch turn to gold, yup (Yeah, Damn!)
Flames are all a nigga know, yeah (God damn!)
All these weak niggas getting bold, yup (Yeah!)
Wanna take a chance with these Tidal Graves (Yeah, teah)
They finna' fuck around and get scolded, yeah (Yeah, uh)
Never gave a fuck
'Bout what the haters have to say (Oh, ayy!)
'Cause when you really break it down
These niggas always gon' rephrase (Woo!)
What they sayin' never phase
I've got no time now, anyways
If you talking too much phony
Hit that Riley on replace (Woo!)
Runnin' laps, like this a race
Now, run it back for that replay (Woah!)
Me and Khary in the building
Everybody feel the wave (Woo!)
I just rock the boat these days
They just flock, you do the same
We just pushin' to the top
So while you plot, we storm the gates, yeah (Woo, yeah)3Embed