2 ContributorsThat Time My Hair Fell Off LyricsWhen I was a kid, I always loved the opportunity to be snarky. Looking back I understand my sarcasm to have been rote and formulaic, but at the time I thought delivering witty comebacks was a display of my how clever I was. "Oh my, is it raining outside?" an adult would ask. Without missing a beat, I'd punch back with, "No, everybody just decided to spit on me today." This, of course, I said with a smirk on my face and eyes longing for a response, which I usually got in the form of a quiet chuckle. Really, it was my socially acceptable way to be a rude son of a bitch when my young self was otherwise always very polite. I must have been eight or nine back then, at the peak of the nineties, right around the time boy bands were all the rage and so were their spiky hairdos with frosted tips.
Naturally, I too, decided to rock the frosted tips. My mom had just finished her hair stylist course, and she was eager to experiment on my almost-black hair. It was actually her idea to bleach some of my hair, and after much deliberation, I relented, secretly thinking it was a good idea. This was when my hair was no longer as long and straight as it once was. It had started to grow a little coarser, very thick, and I wore it short. It was the same hairstyle as half of my male classmates: spiked up and slightly oversaturated with hair gel. As I remember it, the bleaching didn't turn out very good, but I decided to own it, work it, and let it go quietly into oblivion with my next haircut. When my dad first saw it, he said something to the effect of, "You can do what you want to it; it's your hair. But I believe only women dye their hair. And men should be men, and women should be women." I was glad to see the blonde hair go when it did.
The other day I went grocery shopping by myself. It was Sunday night, and I had to get up early the next day for work, but I had just moved into my new apartment and I really wanted to buy some new stuff -- those things you plug into the wall to make the house smell really nice, and a soap dispenser to match my new bathroom, and an electric grill because I wanted to cook more at home. The move was pretty stressful, as moves are, and somewhere along the years I had become the kind of person that gets stress relief out of buying things. And shopping is such a lonely activity. So I called my sister. Talking to her on the phone is like jumping into a different world, one that only the two of us have ever lived in. We speak a language where every other syllable is an inside joke. Every other phoneme is reason to burst out in laughter. I suppose that when people see me on the phone with my sister, they must understand, too, that for the duration of that phone call I am not on planet Earth. We like to talk about our childhood. We have little competitions where we try to one-up each other on remembering ephemera from the time we spent growing up together. My sister and I like to time travel. She had to go do something, so we said goodbye. She's married now. And I went on to get my chicken nuggets and soap dispenser.
Back when I was nine, I showed my Grandma one of my notebooks. I was just learning cursive, experimenting with my handwriting, trying to get all the curves just right one day, being inventive with capital letters the next. I remember telling her about all the different ways I could write the letter N. I knew for a fact then that the letter N, by its very nature, was very versatile. It could be written in a myriad of ways -- I had seen so in different books, peeking at some classmates' notebooks, teasing out even the smallest inconsistencies in my teacher's handwriting on the board. But Grandma was none the wiser, so I credited the different styles of N scattered across my notebook to my own ingenuity. I could barely contain my pride as she turned from one page to the next.
Still glancing at the open notebook, she asked, "Do you know what that means?" I realized that I didn't know what it meant. What does it mean? I didn't know it had to mean something. I was just happy I could do it. But, as it turned out, I had stumbled upon something meaningful. What is this mystery of life that I have uncovered with my art? So eager I was that I just blurted out, "What?" She looked to me, like a physician to her patient, and explained. "It means you have no sense of identity."
Those words -- and that voice -- came to mind when called my roommate from the grocery store. "Guess who will be helping me dye my hair tonight," I told her. I had thought about making a change, going platinum blonde for a while. I gave it some thought for a week. I definitely didn't want to deal with the hassle of dying my very dark, brown hair multiple times. So I picked up the one box in that aisle that promised to turn dark hair into very blonde in one application ("Born Blonde," it said) and put it in my cart between the soy candle and the soap dispenser. I read the instructions very carefully and decided to follow most steps exactly as they were written. My hair was a few fingers long, but it's the kind of hair that grows upwards on itself, so I didn't feel the need to split it up into four quadrants or to apply the mordant mixture with a brush. I just leathered it all in and let it sit for the maximum amount of time recommended on the box. I winked at myself in the mirror; the color looked good and I was about to find out whether blondes really do have more fun. I just needed to rinse out the hair dye.
I misread the instructions. Putting my expensive college education to good use, I put aside the bottle labeled "3" and only mixed together the containers labeled "1" and "2." My roommate even pointed out that there was a step missing after she saw the unopened bottle, but I blew her off since I was certain step 3 was only used in subsequent applications. To this day I blame it on the unintuitive two-column layout of the instruction sheet that my hair turned out canary yellow. I went to bed, woke up the next day, put some pomade on my yellow hair, and headed to work kinda proud. It was hella ugly, but I didn't dye my hair to blonde to be prettier. I did it to make a change. To stand out a little. To let people know I'm the kind of  person who evolves inside and out. Right? Right. At least that's what I told everybody who asked me about it at work on Monday.
On Monday night I bought a different hair dye in a box from the grocery store. They were all out of Born Blonde (it must have been very popular). This one only claimed to work if your hair was already pretty blonde. I decided that yellow counted. After that was done, instructions followed meticulously, my hair looked more natural. Save for the pitch black eyebrows and beard on my face, you'd never know I was brunette. By wednesday night I had grown bored of the color since it wasn't quite what I had in mind, so I went and bought an actual bleaching agent in hopes of lightening my nutrient-starved mane some more. That brought it back to yellow. By Friday I was already wearing a hat. I had all but given up on being blonde. I wasn't having much fun.
But on Saturday I woke up with renewed hopes and went to the store one last time. The box said Platinum Blonde, and on the packaging there was this pale, skinny, smiling, blue-eyed, very blonde woman. My great grandma was black. I don't think we shared any moments of lucidity together; by the time I had grown old enough to remember anything, she had grown too old to remember much. I loved sitting by her side, listening to her rambling stories that I'm sure were half history and half fantasy. I'm told her mother was born in a slave plantation, but the slaves were freed before she came of age. I liked feeling the Sub-Saharan in my hair. It was a thick black jungle that curled on itself, opening ways for my visiting white fingers, but just barely. I thought of it stripped of its rich color. Then I thought of it straight, flat, bouncy, light. I thought of how ridiculous that would look. And that's what I wanted. I walked to the next aisle over from the color boxes and grabbed myself a hair relaxer.
By then I was a pro at this game. In record time, I mixed the right ingredients, leathered my hair with the caustic paste, and let it sit for an hour. I stepped out of the shower, wiped some steam off of the mirror, and saw the color I wanted all along. It was perfect! I showed my roommate and declared that my original vision had finally come to fruition. Ecstatic, we went out to celebrate, at dinner and watched a sad movie. It wasn't until Sunday morning that I realized that I had forgotten about the hair relaxer. It was really just an impulse buy, an afterthought, but I bought it nonetheless, and I figured I had to use it. Besides, my roommate had teased me for shopping from the African American hair section as a  white boy, so here was my chance to stand up for my African heritage. I followed the instructions carefully -- I had learned my lesson by then --, except for the hair-parting rule. "Avoid contact with scalp," it said, but leathered the mixture evenly as I had the other four times that week. The waiting time was twelve minutes for "resistant" hair. I figured five would be alright.
I finished applying the mixture, which strangely didn't sting at all. As I removed my gloves, I noticed a few strands of blonde hair on the plastic fingers. Confused, I scratched my head and looked down at the plastic gloves again. My roommate and I must have seen it at the same time -- a solid chunk of yellow hair the size of a silver dollar, covered in white paste, hanging loose from the gloves. We stared at each other, wide-eyed, and I slammed the bathroom door shut. I don't know when I started screaming, but by the time I turned on the shower and jumped under the cold water my throat was already dry and the pit of my stomach hurting. I pressed down on my hair to get rid of the relaxer product, and down came my hair with it. "This is the worst mistake of my life!" The more I worked my fingertips into my hair to remove the harsh leather, the less hair I felt. "I'm fucking bald!" At my feet was a shallow, foamy yellow layer of water. My fake blonde hair continued to fall on itself as it clogged the bathtub. "Why did I do this!?" I was losing my hair. It wasn't the hair I grew up with, the hair I lived with for so long, but it was my hair, my blonde hair. I bought it. When I had no more strength to shout, and no more tears to cry, and no more courage to feel my stubbly scalp, I turned off the shower. The towel claimed some more of the weakened blond strands. When I found a mirror, I assessed the damage.
There were still patches of relatively long hair left. Those survived, but just barely. Most of my head was covered with millimeter-long little hairs, at which length I presumed was the weakest point, where the rest broke off. On the hair that remained, I tried pulling a little, out of curiosity. Not surprisingly, it was easy to tear it out of my head, not at all painful. Each strand was like a nylon fishing line, stretchy, and after I stretched it far enough, it went, leaving only the millimeter closest to home. Not strong enough, the strands let go of their roots destined to end up on a towel, over my bed, on the floor, and clogging my bathtub.
"Did you get your hair cut?" people asked that Monday. "No, it fell off. Literally."5Embed