8 ContributorsDeconstruction Lyrics'Where are you with the brain, y'know i've been studying this thing inside an' out and i really can't get a hold'
'Excuse me, this is my point with the brain, at the end of the day, you know at the end of the day, anything , a benign object of any sort , you could take anything, you could take a cheeseburger and deconstruct it to its source'
Cheeseburger!
Cheeseburger!
Cheeseburger!
Cheeseburger!
Cheeseburger!
Cheeseburger!
Cheeseburger!
Love meat!
I want to eat myself as the flesh of ancient gods!
What's the point of this? Where's the happiness we've been promised??
Drugs sex and money? Fine
Ooh, then I need to get myself some good drugs
Then when I get the money, ladies will all know that I'm the man
'Cause I ain't gonna be questing for sex if I ain't livin' in poverty and I ain't got no disease
In fact you could say I was a logical choice!
Wooah! Just look at him, and look at her! HA!
Running in the circles and then opening the bar!
You might also likeBar's closed boys, I'm an artist!
So, with art without heart
We will never know the songs!
(We will never, we will never)
With art, without heart
We will never know! We will never know!
'It's just terrifying! There's nothing but reality! An Infinite void of nothing! Where do we fit!? Where's the lines?!? I can't even find my own mind! I can't find!
Enough! I've had it up to here, and I am not afraid of fear!
Enough! I've had it up to here
Just get it out of your system!
Show me
So you'd love to run from pain?
So you've gone and you've closed off from god
Closed off from your true nature in 'I'
Closed off to your own self!
Now, on the border of the broken chasm, the infamy of man was stretched along
Beholding as they descend, and the reign of man is fleeting!
Enraptured in an illusion in which we all belong
And our purpose is acknowledgement of the void?!?
Then void on me in waveforms!
Did you ever had one of those, those days?
Shit a brick!
(I know, why I know why I know I am)
(I know, why I know why I know I am)
Waveforms of waveforms, vibration waveform, way of the waveforms of vibration
'Here it comes, show me!
'Woah! Good lord, it's a cheeseburger!!
A double!'
All beef patties, pickles onions on a sesame seed bun!
All beef patties, pickles onions on a sesame seed bun!
(Oh glorious cheeseburger, we bow to thee. The secrets of the universe are between the buns)
All beef patties, pickles onions on a sesame seed bun
Cheeseburger!
'But I don't eat the cheeseburgers guys, I'm a vegi-ma-tarian!'
Hit it!
There's like sex
And then there's like violence
And drugs
And crime
And beach?
And God
And breasts
And chapters
And work
And money
And death
And taxes
And fame
And fortune
And ego
And beer
Do you say beer? Kanpai!
Beer! Beer! Beer!
I would like to discuss something with you
Bullshit!
Bullshit, bullshit, bullshit, bullshit
It's all bullshit!
(wanting 'I', wanting 'I')
Sorry, I'm sorry
So the words are coming down in rainbows!
Slow burn, there's no cover!
Confused?? I'm so ashamed!
There's water, sew whey!
Fire!
Clouds form over the rainbows over time!
'Oh we're not done yet are we?'
'Scuze me, ok, go!
You're in God!
Bleauughurgglllagggll!
Take your time
Take your time
Enjoy the ride
All we are!
I am free, how about you?Embed