1 ContributorLetter To Grandma Lyrics(Kash)
I gotta text through the phone they talm’ bout grandma got cancer. I broke down right there crying praying god find an answer. Stage 4 shit jus got real, got me and bro in a panic. I prayed for days, shits insane, how you gone like you vanished?
First Dave, then Bill, damn how this shit get so real? If you ain’t lose the one who raised you, you don’t know how I feel. To keep the pain from showing, smoking and I’m gone off a pill. My grandma raised me, 3 years later, still this pain never healed
I never met nobody else that did the shit that she do. Ain’t mеt nobody who relate to all the shit I been through. Found somе ways to cope with shit but still this pain be so fu. Watch time fly by, while I get high, still I might cry in my room
& when this money come I bet they gon pop up out the blue. When I was broke & ain’t have shit, I needed help where was you. Only a couple people there could only name bout a few. They woke me up saying grandma dead like how this shit could be true
I’m hurting bad I need some help man I can’t handle this shit. My grandma raised me since a shorty she been there for the kid. It’s catching body after body where’s the cure for this shit? & for once up in my life, I swear my feelings legit
This one for grandma, I been keeping up my head up jus for you. I’m in my feelings but like fuck it, all this pain I went through. I’m jus expressing my feelings the only way that I knew. I done lost everything to me, got me jus praying for you
Whole lot of shit been on my mind, I got sum thinking to do. Since you been gone, shit I been lost down here jus thinking of you. Hoping that I’ll see you again, I jus been waiting on you. Said hoping I’ll see you again, I jus been waiting on you
(Damn)
Granny told me ima make it, she my biggest fan. Said all them nights she came and got me, police had me jammed. I lost my granny and my son this shit wasn’t in my plans. Damn miss you bad, 3 years later man look at the fam
Drinking out the bottle, smoking woods, I’m trying ease the pain. Remember when they said she gone, I damn near went insane. Since then I been chilling and cooling but don’t get in my lane. Since I lost my granny, I promise that something in me changed
Been really tripping off this shit, it got me reminiscing. The whole family going crazy, gotta keep my distance. Cause it ain’t shit without you there the piece we really missing. Lots of people showing sympathy, well tell em mind they business
Cause ion got no time for allat fake love. Only time I ain’t thinking bout this shit when i take drugs. Say sum, I a up and smack you if you play dumb. Always heard if I want it Gotta go and take sum
You might also likeAlways knew they wasn’t bout it they wouldn’t shake nun. Fuck em. Rip to Grandma Cindy, AKA Moms. Always knew they wasn’t bout it they wouldn’t shake nun. Fuck em. Rip to Grandma Cyndi, AKA Moms
Cause I got woke straight out of bed they told me grandma gone. And I jus wanna make a call right to grandma phone. Wonder how much this shit a take to bring grandma home. Shit been fucked up since you left but I’m still standing strong
Shoutout Fatty, lost his mama while he in a cell. He took like 8 but did like 4, 50% of Hell. Ain’t get to tell his mama bye man who know how he feel? Tell him it’s all love on this side, and he can shed a tear
Shit be hurting, fuck December. Christmas time kilt. Ain’t felt the same jus by thinking you no longer here
12/11 hate that day, the shit a make me cry. Damn, god why? I know it’s life, but still don’t think it’s right. Shit a make a man cry, rethink living life. RIP to Grandma hope I make it through the night
She helped me up when I was down & she never complained. We took 2 losses in 1 day, & damn near went insane
Lots of shit been weighing on my shoulders think I’m finna break. My heart been heavy man I swear I need to talk to Dave. Whole lot of shit up on my plate, I’m trying make it shake. I’m sitting scrolling through these pictures jus to see ya face
(I’m not the type to ask for help, but I should prolly pray. I’m not the type to ask for help, but I should prolly pray. I’m sitting scrolling through these pictures jus to see ya face. Not the type to ever ask for help but I should prolly pray.)
When i heard it, swear to Christ, I damn near fucking lost it. My skin was crawling and really I couldn’t keep from bawling. I looked at Austin, I told em this shit gon make us stronger. Said we gon make it out this shit gon get our money longer
(Gon get our money longer, Gon get our money longer, get our money longer, Gon get our money longer, Gon get our money longer!)Embed