20 ContributorsAmerican Bad Ass Lyrics
Yeah, and I've set up and torn down this stage with my own two hands
We've traveled this land, packed tight in minivans
And all this for the fans, girls, money and fame
I play their game, and as they scream my name (my name is Kid!)
I will show no shame, I live and die for this
And if I come off soft, then chew on this!
Are you scared?

Devil without cause, and I'm back
With the beaver hats and Ben Davis slacks
30-pack of Stroh's, 30-pack of hoes
No Rogaine in the propane flows
The chosen one, I'm the living proof
With the gift of gab from the city of truth
I jabbed and stabbed and knocked critics back
And I did not stutter when I said that
I'm goin platinum (sellin' rhymes)
I went platinum (seven times)
And still they ill, and wanna see us fry
I guess because the "Only God Knows Why" (why)
Why (why), Why, oh

They call me cowboy, I'm the singer in black
So, throw a finger in the air, let me see where you're at, say (hey, hey)
Let me hear where you're at, say (hey, hey)
I'm giving it back, so say (hey, hey)
Show me some metal and say (hey, hey, hey, hey)
(Yeah!) Gah! (Fuck all y'all)
See Kid Rock LiveGet tickets as low as $95You might also like
I like AC/DC and ZZ Top
Bocephus, Beasties, and the Kings of Rock
Skynyrd, Seger, Limp, Korn, the Stones
David Allan Coe and No Show Jones, yeah
Pass that bottle around
Got the rock from Detroit, soul from Motown
The underground stoned fuckin' pimp
With tracks that mack and slap back the whack
Never gay, no way, I don't play with ass
But watch me rock with Liberace flash
Punk rock, The Clash, boy bands are trash
I like Johnny Cash and Grandmaster Flash (Flash), Flash (Flash), Flash, oh

They call me cowboy, I'm the singer in black
So, throw a finger in the air, let me see where you're at, say (hey, hey)
Let me hear where you're at, say (hey, hey)
I'm giving it back so say (hey, hey)
Show me some metal and say (hey, hey, hey, hey)

Uh, uh, uh, gah!
Yeah, I saw your band
Jumping around on stage like a bunch of wounded ducks, pfft
When you gonna learn, sucker?
You just can't fuck with Twisted Brown Trucker
I'm an American badass, watch me kick
You can roll with Rock or you can suck my dick
I'm a porno flick, I'm like Amazing Grace
I'm gonna fuck some hoes after I rock this place
Super fly, living double wide
Side car, my Glide, so Joe C can ride
Full sack to share, bringin' flash and flair
Got the long hair swingin', middle finger in the air
Snake skin suit, '65 Chevelle
See me ride in sin, hear the rebel yell
I won't live to tell, so if you do
Give the next generation a big "Fuck you!"
Who knew I'd blow up like Oklahoma?
Said, "Fuck high school," pissed on my diploma
Smell the aroma, check my hits
I know it stinks in here, 'cause I'm the shit (shit), shit (shit), shit, oh

They call me cowboy, I'm the singer in black
So, throw a finger in the air, let me see where you're at, say (hey, hey)
Let me hear where you're at, say (hey, hey)
I'm giving it back, so say (hey, hey)
Show me some metal and say (hey, hey, hey, hey)

(Yeah!) I, I, I'm a cowboy, badass in black, singin' (hey, hey, hey, hey)
From side to side, from front to back, say (hey, hey, hey, hey)
I put Detroit City back on the map by singin' (hey, hey, hey, hey)
Kid Rock's in the house, and that's where I'm at3Embed