1 ContributorPu’ Sho Hands 2Getha LyricsEverybody listen up cuz I want you to know
That there's a brand new groove and that's the way it's got to go
It makes you clap your hands because you feel the funky flow
It's 'bout time for my show so I must let it go
I never will stop the rock where others stop well I continue
I'm unbelievably stating various items on my menu
Who am I I'll tell you who I am
The speaker is my throne I'm the king of the jam
I am the ME the PHI the ME will follow
I'm rockin' it shockin' it doin' it renewin' it makin' the ladies holler
I'm kickin' the flow and lettin' it go commandin' top dollar
I'm doin' my thing you let your hands swing
The kings and the queens are dancin' all across the land
You're hearin' the thunderous clap of a million joyous hands
And folks are movin' and groovin' and lovin' every hype beat
Might be a signal to say that hand claps are mighty
Nothin' could be better for the go-getter rougher and tougher than leather
Hotter than a sweater puttin' the groove ahead I said a letter
PHI
Yeah my fraternity
Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha

Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
You might also likeWhat makes an eagle fly is it the will the drive
Determ.nation and my show kicks live
Too damn hype the jam's like poetic prose metaphors
A rap tro­phy tell me what can I get it for
Maybe it's because I got you dappin' your hands and startin' to dance
And takin' the chance on what the world calls groovy
Move me deeper into the core of the sun and let it soothe me
Clap your hands shake your booty
Suckers are feelin' the jealousy of bein' second best
Many clowns tried to lay the sound down to rest
And snuff me and lay my soul in the breezes
No harm will come I walk with Jesus
Now can I get an Amen (Amen)
You're gettin' into the song it's strong so now you clap your hands
You're lovin' the way it goes and nothin' could be better
Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha

Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
I'm droppin' the funky sounds that make your hands join union
You saw the ME PHI comin' and realize you're dyin' soon son
So pray to meet your maker time to get your things in order
Sorta funny how I keep on rockin' it
Shockin' it kickin' it clockin' it
That frat man is so amazing
Won't you come and join no need to worry about hazing
Only hand clapping cuz that's what we're all about
If you want to join the frat give a shout
So stand with me and bask in the sunshine
The weak kind have to realize the suicide
I prophesied when you arrive
You won't survive cuz no one could
Your soul trembles al the sight of the brotherhood
ME PHI ME it has a ring to it
Now let everybody sing to it (ME PHI ME)
Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–
Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho... Pu' Sho Hands 2Getha–Embed