1 ContributorTea LyricsTorch done did it again, bringing it in for the win. Gladiator bars bloody face and im on a binge, Born in the lions den, I got lyrics that’ll make ya whole lineage cringe, lit off my jesus like Popeyes and spinach!! Rapping in vintage, sick with the flow not allowed at the clinic, diminished, unfinished business, I’ve been given gift like I terrorize Christmas, I’m vicious!
I’m putting god first and his hearts in my vision, praise stomp like Kirk and I kidnapped the witness! Fire so hot its defying the physics, hold up man what chu talking bout Willis?
Hot as a skillet, Batman is dead so they call me the villain, I’m coming in heavy I move in the spirit, fly off the rails, god on my side I don’t know how to fail, y’all really can’t see me I’m rapping in braille. Tear open the veil!
TorchLife is coming we shaking up hell, saved by the blood Im the bill of sale. Death couldn’t keep him, I’m talking bout Jesus, I’m tormenting demons, they knew it was over when I was a fetus, the lyrical genius, I’m ripping these beats into pieces. Earth Wind and Fire let me give these reasons, avatar bars and I gotta release it
Pull it together, wrecking these beats I find it as pleasure, I bet they are feeling it now I’m applying the pressure, I’m krunk off his grace so I’m yanking the lever. How could I be so hot but born in December? bars to remember, god I surrender, I’m eating the word like that feast in November, but celebrate like I’m a Jew in September!
(Lawwdd)
When I pray I spray, oh no Satan not today, special force like them green berets, all I really am is potters clay, mixed with a little bit of gamma rays, throw me in the oven to bake, gonna go on a tear all around the state, I remember momma telling Im gonna be great

He ain’t got no money in the bank, but’s it’s Christ gang so I gotta let it bang, bloodstains, covered on the wood grain, we ain’t popping Champaign, ain’t sniffing no Cane, if you give me the chance imma tell you that he reigns. The god, we ain’t talking Charlemagne, beat the bass outta the frame, I don’t know if I’ll be tamed, Man i never liked the cage, I  just burn every day, dog look what I became!
A beast on the beats and the beats meet defeat when they mess around with me, melted T in the streets, and we bringing all the heat, got the peace on the feet and the piece in front seat
(What)
Complete in the 3, and the 3 runs with me digging in like it’s cleats, apart of the elite, murder on the track Im not calling the police, I don’t have time to freeze
Hot streak of the week, the race to the peak, don’t play with me g, black Sheep of the sheep, we play for the keeps and and we play for the sweep, gotta make this a tweet, without G.O.D man I go on a tweak, and my life’s the receipt, man the flame had a leak, unique when I speak, and I’m eating everything that comes in contact with me!You might also likeEmbed