3 ContributorsIn Two Deep Lyrics

Uh, look
I’m the reason this lame’s name's ringing
The same reason the gauge in his face breathing
I’ve maintained with the same demons
I can not explain what has got in his brain thinking that we even
This the creek he’s knee deep in
It’s that heat seeking piece squeezed and released then repeated
Brush em with the stick and street sweep em’
Then I let em’ ride into the sky like that scene that ET in, uh
It’s easy in telling they’ll see what his belly is when it's cropping up his top like Ezekiel Elliott
Leaving him bleeding and swelling in need of medic
To treat what I’ve evilly set in his mid-sec when I point five
Boy’s lie, numbers don’t, your lines suck as quotes
And If you’re thinking the scores tied, I’m cutting rope
Seeing Em tore with his Dog, they’ll be up in smoke
Call the Doc, and I'll Kurrupt them both
Cause on the bill, they’ll know what the cause be like Cliff Huxtable
It’s nothing to get him peeled till he sleeps cause it’s comfortable
What’s up with you?
Porter's so unoriginal that even sending direct shots at him will sound subliminal
I’m killing you, it can officially be seen
Two niggas in his group, and his initials DP?
He love that double penetration, double penetration
And since he loves it, yo, the gun has got a couple waiting
Blue Steel, got him screaming like a faggot should
Loose SEAL as you can see he likes grabbing wood
He be getting anal raped over 808’s
Fans supporting defeat stronger than an Ankle brace
I take no breaks, these here, lines fracture
A mere sign there’s a nearby linebacker
I spare mine then divide after, so do the math
'Cause what you lack is a clear prime factor, uh
What you’re getting’s finger licking’, triggers squeeze
Ammunition’s hitting quick as niggas sipping newer lean
With a Breez, that’s a bullet pass fast through the seam
You will see it flash through your head and dab, that’s a dream, my nigga
You’re going shot for shot looking up to God?
These ain’t suburban street bars for a Mardi Gras
I'll Fire off at your empire for an hour long
To stop the rounds you'll need Armani to cut the power off
Does he really want to get this work? 'Cause I’ll put him in the dirt with ease
On a murder spree when I kill him in the first degree with an urgency
So it’s really going to hurt his team when they gotta get a nigga diggin' a hole in the ground
'Cause I’m holding it down for the Rhode in my town when I’m doing this Hercules' light work for free
All of you niggas who wanted it with me I’m bucking it quickly
A hundred and fifty in every one of you suffering under my privy
I’m steadily running my city, I’m one of the hungriest niggas to come from the grittiest sections ever that I’ll never be worried to get to blessin' when it comes to the fury of God!
You might also like

Come on, man
Y'all thought it was over?
Y'all really thought it was over?
Wake the fuck up!
This shit ain't over nigga
Yo, Rhode Island! Stand the fuck up
Woo! (Oh my, oh my, oh my, yeah)

How ya feel? How ya feel? What you really 'bout?
They know the motto take care of every doubt
Thought he had the Midas touch, gold fronts, till I ripped ‘em out
Only chance of something valuable coming from his mouth
Then its time when I grab and I pull
The silver medal like I happened to lose
But it’s the deuce that I happily choose
Masked up, using gloves
‘Cause you was dumb, this shot’s for the back of ya toof, but you—
—look as crooked as teeth
By the way they cheering back, to a look of deceit
Man' your wack fans laughed and gassed up what had put me to sleep
Just embrace what it took for the cheese from those pearly whites
'Cause even your black fanatics were wide open
Like that chick you wanted to hit but you went and flipped
Like an acrobatic because the guy’s noticed
That you wasn’t trying to beat, until Clyde stroked it
[Got this nigga in too deep
Literally in two deep
This the second time
That I get to ride, ouwee
Just to show these niggas why they’ll never get through me], God
Lil nigga what you want?
This that Rhode Island to the Bronx
I’mma send a round through him in the middle of the BX
Just to put him in a BOX, BOX, BOX

And I don’t have to say it, 'cause they know it’s favoritism when they’re going on the pages
I’m the one that’s hated, I’m the only one that's motivated
By the Golden Age to put ‘em under when I’m over being over underestimated by the scene
Team Backpack, with a dollar and a dream
When my girl died, I made a promise to her in her sleep
As I turned heartless, so you’ll never see it ever on a sleeve, boy
Yo, I got him shook, the long strap's not for pocket books
I’ll drop this puss in combat while his little Glock kaputs
He suck’s with his arms more than octopus
I rock’d him look, like a true boxer should
Cus D’amato mixed with Bernard Hopkin's hooks
How the fuck you gone hate ‘cause I got the hood
When you went and jocked your look from a comic book, nigga
[Got this nigga in too deep
Literally in two deep
This the second time
That I get to ride, ouwee
Just to show these niggas why they’ll never get through me], God
Lil nigga what you want?
This that Rhode Island to the Bronx
I’mma send a round through him in the middle of the BX…
Just to put him in a BOX, BOX, BOX

This that Iron Man suit wiring diagram
Piloting, who you’ll never be a better writer than
I am him in where you're cyphering
Please, somebody tell Sway I got his hyenas on my diet plan
Firing, the only Mr. Porter I know
Is known for being with Eminem hyping him
What is this? Open up, put the knife up in
Butterflies in your stomach can be stage frightening, God
Somebody’s seeing Jesus
This is just some dirty work with my sleeves up
It’s funny how you need Chris Rivers to keep your streams up
And all it ever took was a Benjamin to get your team buck
A mean rush with this exercise
Cause you’re gonna have to press rewind
If you ever find a loose seal on shit you expect to buy
Just know that it got dropped and was left behind, lord

Got this nigga in too deep, ha
Got this nigga in too deep, ha
Yo, Chris! Oswin!
Get your nigga off the fucking ground, man
I'm tired of this dumb nigga, ha
This nigga's trash, man. Get him the fuck out of here
Yo, Armani! I ain't even tryna Bar Fight unless it's all three of these niggas, man, for real
Let's get it
Got this nigga in too deep
Literally in two deep
Who am I, bitch? Who am I? Who am I?
GodEmbed