9 ContributorsBrony Polka Lyrics
When you're rife with devastation
There's a simple explanation:
You're a toy-maker's creation
Trapped inside a crystal ball
And whichever way he tilts it
Know that we must be resilient
We won't let them break our spirits
As we sing our silly song

Isn't it great to be different?
Isn't it wonderful to be exactly who you are?
Once you learn to start accepting yourself
You'll become a shining star

Carrot Top, go beyond us
You're a late star, time to fool us
Keep your friends close, they're what drive you
To the cosmos that describes you
Carrot Top, go beyond us
You're a late star, time to fool us
Keep your friends close, they're what drive you
To the cosmos that describes you...
You might also like
(...May!) call it a crash, I call it a fly in:
Here to perform on this desert-ed island
Jealous, 'cause I leave a pony smiling?
You need to chill, 'cause you knowing who I am
Out here, no cell phone service
With a blank stare, it don't serve its purpose
Not worthless, look under the surface
Clear blue sea and these ponies are shirtless
(Clear blue sea and these ponies are shirtless)

Trixie: I'm Trixie welcome to the show
Got Magic tricks so here we go
We're gonna have some fun
Hold on to your hats
Heckler: We don't care who you are anymore
Just pack your things go out the door
You claim that you're performing
Don't make us laugh
T: I have something more
H: We've seen it before
T: It's much more special
H: We'd rather be in Hell
T: It might be the same act
Be patient you'll see
You can call it fake
But this is real magic
It's real magic, it's real magic (Yeah yeah)
It's real magic, M-A-G-I-C!

*Sobbing*
Fate has been cruel and order unkind
How could I have sent you away?
The blame was my own; the punishment: yours
The harmony's silent today
But into the stillness I'll bring you a song
And I will your company keep
Till your tired eyes and my lullabies
Have carried you softly to sleep
(Sleep)
(Sleep)
(Sleep)

Hey Cheerilee Hey Cheerilee
I'm afraid to raise my hand
I have something to ask you
'Cause I want to understand
It's not about homework
It's about 1 + 1 is 2
Hey Cheerilee Hey Cheerilee
I think I'm in love with you

Yeah I own this beat
You can call me the king or the ruler
Felon on bass, getting hoarse at the mic
We're getting 20 percent cooler
We had a great day out
Calling my name like Ferris Bueller
Time to wrap this up
We're getting 20 percent cooler (Hey!)
We're getting 20 percent cooler
We're getting 20 percent cooler now!

Human beings fascinate me, being just the way they are
Tell me, little pony, can you push a cart or drive a car?
Lyre is my instrument, but humans strum their sweet guitar
It's a mystery, anthropology!

Discord, I'm howling at the moon
And sleeping in the middle of a summer afternoon
Discord, whatever did we do
To make you take our world away?
Discord, are we your prey alone
Or are we just a stepping stone for taking back the throne?
Discord, we won't take it anymore
So take your tyranny away!

Why can't I mention Fluttershy and her timid, loving mind
How she can be herself near animals, but shies away from her own kind?
Why can't I mention Pinkie Pie and the way she kind of
Acts a bit like me sometimes?
You see I use to hate that I liked My Little Pony
Not any more, I'm proud to be a brony!

When you're flying up there (up there)
In the sky (the sky), rising high (-sing high)
Every hue, it's like a dream (a dream)
Out of this world (this world), into a new (a new)
When you're soaring up there
In the sky (the sky), spread your wings (your wings), and you will see (you'll see)
The cirrus swirl shimmering down below
And you'll recognize the glow
From the Double-

-Rainbow's tale isn't quite as nice
As the story we knew of sugar and spice
But a rainbow's easy once you get to know it
With the help of the magic of a pegasus device

(Yeah! What do you know about Nightmare Night, son?!)
Welcome Fillies and Gentlecolts; No reason to scream
Your favorite Princess is back; She's walking up on the scene
She has been stuck on the moon, but that's no reason to fret
She's not a Nightmare no more, so buckle down and get set
She's coming; Gracing her subjects, she ain't leaving no choice
She's gonna blow you all back with her Equestrian Voice
So cover all of your fears and stow away all your fright
The Lunar Princess is back to bring the Nightmares Tonight

So put down that cello and go grab the bass
'Cause we're swingin' here tonight, this ain't no fancy music place
You just gotta let it go, from everything that tells you no
Even if this is not your type of show, your type of show

SB: Hello I'm Sweetie Belle and I want to play
R: Hello I'm Rarity and I have to work all day
SB: So can I work with you and help you a lot?
R: So sorry I'm busy so please keep your mouth shut
SB: Do you still hate me (R: I don't)
SB: Can you play with me (R: I can't)
SB: Can we do something right now?
SB: I can't (R: I can't) SB: We can't (R: WE CAN'T)
R: No Sweetie! What have you Done!
SB: I just wanted to have fun!
SB+R: I don't want to be your sister just get out of my life!
Get out of my life, hey!

Jokermort: You've hair soft as feathery down
Wide eyes to look into
Such trust and vigor for life!
Rainbow Dash: I am your pony waifu!
JM: That makes my poor heart burst with glee!
Please promise that it's true!
That you would deign to choose me!
RD: I am your pony waifu!

Twilight Sparkle: I gave you my heart and then you turned around
Shining Armor: The secrets that we shared, the moments that you cared
TS: I gave you my heart and then you turned around
SA: We went streaking in the park, skinny dipping after dark
TS: I gave you my heart and then you turned around
SA: Depressing melodies, suppressing fantasies
TS: I gave you my heart and then you turned around
Main Six Sans Twi: Twilight please make this song end, we're a bunch of floating heads!
TS+SA: Since we're not related, it'll be okay!
It'll be okaaaaaaaaay!
James: Just kidding I'm not done
'Cause I'm a picture perfect pony
A picture perfect pony pony pony pony
Picture perfect pony
Picture perfect pony pony pony pony

Give me a smidge of confidence
Give me a speck of something that makes sense
Give me an idea of dependency
Give me a dash of loyalty (Loyalty)

So together we are all lost on the moon
We all share our home on the moon, we
Forever we are lost on the moon, together
We pay your crime on the moon
Together we are lost on the moon
We all share a home on the moon
Forever we are lost on the moon
(Moooon)
(Moooon)
(Moooon)

Octavia: I comb the crowd
But I can't see your face out there, no
I'm playing now, won't wait on love
I'm paralyzed
From all these whispers in my brain, yeah
I'm focused now, I won't give up
You hurt me now, but I won't cry
I am Octavia
You hurt me now, but I won't cry
I am Octavia
Vinyl Scratch: Sorry Neon, I just can't concentrate, I just... I just gotta go!
James: Aside from Anthropology, this is my favorite one

I'll cook up a solution with the knowledge I've accrued
They say a kitch-en time saves nine, but I'm just saving two!
I've gathered the ingredients to make some time sorbet
There's hardly room for seconds when the seconds melt away!
(Seconds melt away!)
(Seconds melt away!)
(Seconds melt away!)
Watch as I work my gypsy magic
Eye of the newt and cinnamon
Watch as the matter turns to batter
Open the portal, jump in!
Buy some apples, buy some apples
Open the portal and jump in
Open the portal
Open the portal
Open the portal
Open the portal jump
Open the portal jump
Open the portal jump in!
Yeeeeeeeeah!

Don't Miiiine at Niiiiight!5Embed