3 ContributorsDNA vs Dirtbag Dan Lyrics
Said now, before I get into any battling with you, there's a couple things that I'd like to say
First off I want to apologize to The King Of The Dot staff and my homie Ki' cause this a battle that I delayed
But for the fans watching on PayPerView and in the crowd, oh y'all gon' be hype today
Cause all the impersonations in the world can't stop me from barring your life away
He ain't handling these bars, my wordplay landing and it's hard
My punchlines Illmaculate, I'm damaging the card
If this is your biggest step and now they think this man is on his job
Well you welcome, cause now reality shows Dan's in (Dancing) With The Stars
And it's gon' get ugly Dirtbag cause you ain't half the man
Can't do what I did in half the span
You only get booked for two gigs and you call that a plan?
Never had a chance, with these words, I'm mad advanced
So the only way I'll cater (Al-Qaeda) to you is the Taliban
His punches have to land but you be spitting rapid, damn
Take your time cause we won't Rush Hours (ours); Jackie Chan
If this gat in hand? He better Dodge; caravan
If the 'matic jam? Then you getting boxed, Zatarain
This 'bout to be a body, let's see if your package stand
When I crack your fam'
I'm well dressed and well groomed, but I ain't come to Dapper Dan
I'll smack this man, go to his right and start clapping cans
But if he survive then I'ma switch sides like battle fans
I got two deadly cans, let two weapons blam
I'm a loose cannon with a loose cannon with this new Tec in hand
Running his wallets and I'm strapped in two mini vans
The metal? Is for his legs if your pockets got any loot in it (Lieutenant) Dan
Ah that bar was sick, it's hard as shit but I'll be your Lt. Dan
Cause I stay with some retarded shit and I'm armed with this
He's frightened and scared
It's enticing but I'm Tyson, bow, there's a right to his ear
If what I'm striking is lightening, you'll be dying this year
Anybody that said Dan's rough (dandruff) they got lice in their hair
I got that .380 again, I ain't saving his friends
So when you get this Illmac' you won't like this chain of events
I'm an animal nigga, they say this kid's the truth
C'mon and bring the Charlie Clips jokes and my missing tooth
How a bunch of lines don't make sense and that shit was true
But nigga I was sick in Holyoak, but tonight they gon' be sick of you
You might also like
It's Mr. If It Ain't On The URL It Doesn't Count
Now that's some shit you're gonna have to speak to
These days most of your battles are ass so King Of The Dot don't need you
But you take money from people and then no show, that's deceitful
So no wonder your trademark is a missing tooth, you're always biting the hand that feeds you
I think you battled everyone now Eric, when it's over what are you supposed to do
I may be the underdog today but I understand the whole overview
You're the poster boy for over saturation, the casual fans are over you
You over booked yourself, you're overrated, even this ass whooping is overdue
You have never been tight with the pen DNA
They want a mediocre battle now they send DNA
So if I molly whop Eric and end DNA it'll make everybody happy like MDMA
Hold on, hold on, I can see your future, I'm a psychic
You'll always be somebody's sidekick
And your bars will always come off light if Shine is who you write with
Who else is gonna let you dress him up like a mime and think it's some tight shit
The whole time Daylyt is going out of his fucking mind thinking, "That's my shit."
At that moment, whatever respect I had for the two of you slipped away
But a mime's perfect I guess cause y'all are both overly animated actors who never have shit to say
In six months, y'all went from making 2 on 2's hot again to "Goddamn it, DNA & K-Shine in a 2 on 2, not again!"
Now-a-days you just follow him, a year ago you were baby Clips
Shit I bet the two of you used to kiss like you Lil' Wayne and Baby Clips, you make me sick
Trying to be just like them cause nobody wants to be like you
K-Shine's in the gym all the time now he trying to get his body right too
But back when Charlie was giving himself Diabetes, you were the Type Two/too
Hold on, if Eric don't get it, give Eric a minute
Cause Eric a airhead like Erica Mena
He thinks it's all Love & Hip Hop like Erica Mena
But you a washed up bitch clinging to a short rapper to stay relevant like Erica Mena
DNA fans thinking, "He's white so of course he's gonna lose to Eric, right?"
Bitch you gon' lose the fight for life like the white blood cells in Eric Wright
How come when Chess and Shine were pushing on each other, your pussy ass look terrified
It's not like they're heavyweights Eric, that's a pretty tiny pair of guys
As a kid, he was the embarrassed type
That grew up without both parents type, he always acting like a fucking bitch
So you can guess which one of his parents died
Verified, you went from poppa Charlie to uncle K-Shine
Let me clarify, you find a father figure Eric, then you feed off him like a parasite
You think your fucking dead ass daddy is happy looking down?
Or ashamed at this ass whooping and you acting like a clown?
I didn't understand your name before but I finally got it now
DNA is a acronym, stands for Daddy's Not Around
Of course, we in San Jose so when he spit y'all gon' like his rhymes
That shit got me bugged off, don't make me have to light the nine
Cause you the type of nigga that'll get me bugged, you'll never let the fire fly
Keep talking 'bout your rhymes, but you act like you ill when you popping the nine
But you'll be like my dad, when you shoot, all your pops in disguise (da skies)
Now, what you gon' say?
When I was supposed to battle and 40 B.A.R.R.S., I backed out?
Cool, he gon' say I copped out figures, but Big T and Shine jumped you
They both showed you what our block 'bout wigger
You got caught with that boo boo with me, that tool with me
They left them shots off quicker
You got hit by T, K, Oh, that was a knockout nigga
And now I'm here to finish the job and make sure every verse hard
Out of all these west coast rappers, you are one of the worst stars
That second round vers' Rone, I know it hurt y'all
Cause I'm starting to think me not making sense, is better than them bird bars
B-b-b-b-birdman!
Nigga I got three million views by telling Dizaster "something, something"
I guess that was heavy
I got a millions for telling Eur' "I'm known nationwide" I guess that was heavy
I snipe the .38 long range vers' Ill Will and killed him cause he wasn't half as ready
Ah Dan, by the looks of things, you should start to clap machetes
I'll load the sporter, cause you talking 'bout a cockatoo, is an obstacle
You getting a million views might never be possible
B-b-b-birdman is Chris Anderson, I heard he rocks with you
Well if that's the case, you should be used to having more Hawks on top of you
B-b-b-bird bars and I don't even want to speak to peasant
Roles will be reversed, we'll see Real Deal trying to be a reverend
Sage trying to teach a lesson, Hollow stop sipping lean a second
Before Danny Glover have a Lethal Weapon
This is Back To The Basics, you basic, I came to kill you and leave everything in the Bay sick
Rap City, Big Tigger, started off in The Basement
Now I'm here, my spot permanent like Verb and his wave kit
You want your spot back, I got that
It's all eyes on me, you can't stop that
My Ambitionz Az A writer get higher soon as I cock back
Danny Boy, I don't gotta be Mad At Cha to send you where 'Pac at
I ain't come to play
You bit off of QP, you thought I didn't think that?
I mean that's absurd, the whole wood pecker, parrot, owls
He said that in The Jungle when he battled Bird
That's why I hate y'all, I hate frauds
You went behind the scenes and now try to take charge
Sold a 16 from your Westside Connection and tried to save bars
So for that, you should get this hook and be dead; Nate Dogg
R.I.P. though
I'm on the worst side, don't make me squirt nines
Y'all may think he won the first round but I swear it will be Reverse Live
I squirt nines, came to kill him, but fuck all that Birdman ish
Fuck ya squad, fuck you and that Birdman clique
Charlie already killed you with that Birdman shit
So do me a favor, after this get off of me and the Birdman's dick
You fuck up, fear the beard
You should've done like MASSacre and sent your team
I don't care how safe the venue seem
I'ma make sure you leave this bitch looking like Balrog on the continue screen
Final 9...8...7...
Bitch you better pick up the sticks and hit the continue button before I get to six, I flip the script
Your mother's a crippled bitch, she doesn't do shit but sit
And one of her eyes is bigger than the other one by a little bit
You're illiterate, you do talk to text when you drop down lines about popping Tecs
And you hop on the dick of who's popping next
Cause you haven't found you're real poppa yet
Pussy boy, you are not a threat
I don't owe you shit, you are not a friend
He's got specials cracking on feature verses but none of those specials ever end
All of your features are special, just like all of your teachers were Special Ed'
Let's pretend for a split second you're about the shit that your clique repping
You, got that nine milli, K-Shine got the Smith & Wesson
You, whipping the Pyrex while you roll up a zip
Then you pop in the clip and you switch weapons
Stop it, you are not a G
If y'all got popped in a robbery you will probably go and cop the plea
You do fake gun choreography
Why the fuck do you battle so much?!
You got a gambling problem and homie's broke
If Nikiya's dumb ass didn't pay you in advance you would've definitely showed up in Holyoak
He doesn't got shit for real life skills, but in a battle homie go for broke
He's like one of those autistic kids that learned to play Mozart note for note
Know what I'm talking about?
Imagine, DNA at a job interview
What the fuck do you put on the resume?
"I never used a fax machine before but I can show you how to make the machete spray."
"Well okay, ah...are you-do you know how to make a spreadsheet using Microsoft Word or Excel?"
"Word. Yo' girl, said you micro soft and when I spread sheets I'm excel."
"I don't think you're understanding the questions. That's not what I asked you. Are you familiar with Powerpoint?"
"I'll power point this nine at you."
"I'm sorry. I think we're just gonna have to go in a different direction."
"Nah, that the fuck outta here. Get them Post Its, them staplers, and them thumbtacks the fuck outta here
Get them e-mails, them spreadsheets, and the fax the fuck outta here
Aw, I don't wanna get a real job. I should've have told Smack to get the fuck outta here."
Yeeeeah
Fuck an impersonation, this is in person hatred
Your mom's a cripple bitch in a wheelchair strolling
So her favorite 2Pac song is Picture Me Rollin"

He right, I got a gambling problem, that's a fact
You 'bout to see me black jack when I grab the gat
You ain't get a chance to roulette, nigga will get half of that
Cause he know if you snitched don't bring back a rack (bacharach)
Now let's go through these bars, that's casino shit but
Lush gets the round where I start hurting ya soldier
Your personal doja
'Bout to wind up in a hearse or a coma
Gave you the Blueprint to help ya verse's be colder
Think Jay-Z cause I'm 'bout to brush Dirt Of My Shoulders
And y'all may react as he Fade To Black
I'm killing this nigga now-what?
And they may react as you Fade To Black
Anderson Silva, got in this ring and couldn't wait to snap
Y'all should see how I could set this up when y'all watch the tape and play it back
Cause all you gon' see is me give a nigga from The Bay the max (Betamax)
I ain't playing that cause I don't care what this lame nigga be thinking, he got a gat
Who cares about the gauge niggas be bringing but he's a rat
Telling 'bout the 'cane niggas be slinging, see you a rapper
But a lot of Zay (Lotta Zay) niggas be singing and you an actor
And now we see you lost it fam'
Kevin Durant going for a dunk, we all knew your four would (forward) jam
I promote the big nose like a Caustic fan
He blow, Marino, and I'ma let it off in (Dolphin) Dan
Marino/Dolphin/Dan, my mind's sick, that was some wild shit
Mentioned Chess in that altercation that's childish
I could've knuckled up in the ring and gave this child dis
That's a minor in a minor situation, don't be childish
But Organik, I got a question for you bro
I'm really starting to think you don't think my verse is insane
What you thought I really wasn't sick in Holyoak?
Like that was purposely staged?
I should sue him for defamation of character, the nerve of this lame
Cause the moment I seen the flier I knew y'all threw Dirt on my name
The state been looking, for you to face this whooping
After, give it a rest, you should be placed in bookings
Pass, E-40, Mistah Fab, they be cooking
And you should stop cause they care (daycare) how the Bay be (baby) looking
And you fucking it up cause you seem gay, fuck what this fiend say
Since he got the long beard I should kill him the free way/Freeway
But Dan kinda soft, he'll never let three spray
The gun rose and (Roseanne) had him cutting like DJ
But I don't gotta wild out, cause for this, it wasn't a reason to diss you
But now I stay with the Tec, my whole team is official (O'fficial)
Wild N Out with the Cannon like Conceited was with you
The only way they'll say D beat (B) D is if you read his initials
I came to kill you nigga, it's round three it's getting hot in here
San Jose what's my slogan?
(GET HIM THE FUCK OUTTA HERE!)
Hell no
Get all your friends the fuck outta here
Get everybody that impersonates and say I don't make sense the fuck outta here
Get Dirtbag and this queer the fuck outta here
Get them b-b-b-b-bird bars and that beard the fuck outta here

This motherfucker told 40 B.A.R.R.S. and Bonnie Godiva, "Don't suck my dick, just get the fuck outta here. Aaaah."
I never seen somebody look so frightened telling a couple women "Don't suck my dick" before
Then I thought about it, has anybody ever seen DNA with a chick before?
Anybody? Not me, not one time
Not one woman, not at one event, not once
I know your dad didn't get a chance to tell you Eric but getting your dick sucked is something you're supposed to want
This is the guy who sets up punchlines like, "We were in sex. It was glad proper."
That's the type of shit you say when you when you don't connect with your dad proper
You have sex, you're not in sex
When we say "birds and bees" we don't mean insects
The whole concept has DNA fucked up like incest
I can't blame the homies either
Hooking this guy up would be hard to do
I mean first off, you gotta find a bitch that's down to fuck a retarded dude
And then, even if you do its' still gon' be some hard work
I heard K-Shine asked if you were into tits or ass
He said he needed to hear her bars first
I'm just saying, pretty fucking weird, none of us has seen you with a chick before
Aside from being in a battle or standing next to Clips I ain't seen you close to a pair of tits before
Just like you saying your mom is crippled and in a wheelchair, what the fuck I seen this chick limp for?
Then, she started fucking sprinting the minute she seen a liquor store
Run up in that bitch with a handful of change talking 'bout what the scratch is hitting for
Threw 95 cents on the counter, cashier said she a nickle short
Charlie Clips has cholesterol problems you used to get him his Lipitor
He ate dinner on the kitchen table and you ate dinner on the kitchen floor
Whooh! This scheme is hitting, what the fuck I need to switch it for?
I ain't even said, "bitch you're poor", "civil war" or "ninja sword"
Even if he get a whore, the minute that he finna score
I'll grab the bitch, throw her in the figure four, tell Avacado to hit record
We're filming a fucking murder here
And even though the home town bias, I'm make sure that the verdict clear
This is the Zay baby! Aaaah! This a motherfucking bird in here
So I don't wanna hear a word about a fucking bird in here
Caw caw, yeah, let me squawk that shit
I will box that beak
Cock the hammer for the chicken if you wanna cross that street
Ba-ba-ba-bird bars, watch me overdose
If I did, that would be your only hope
I should introduce son to his father and the holy ghost
For making me spend a single weekend of my life in Holyoak
You know what's cracking in Holyoak?
Back page hoes that K-Shine knows
Throwing blows in the hotel room hallway, don't ask me why, only K-Shine knows
Sorry Uncle Niki, I'm not hating
It's just not the type of place that I'd vacation
While I was in Amsterdam, eating magic truffles getting high as spaceship
You were battling your fucking step daddy in Nikaya's basement
Face it, being on a B.E.T. cipher don't make you famous
If you still gotta battle 16 times a month to make your cell phone payments
I'm fucking doneEmbed