2 ContributorsFive Nights at Treasure Island vs. Five Nights at Wario’s Lyrics
Inside Joke Rap Battles!
Five Nights at Treasure Island!
Vs
Five Nights at Wario's!
Begin!

Welcome to my Island, want me to fire my shots off?
Because what’s my original series to this FNaF 1 ripoff?
With all its models ripped from Super Smash Bros. Brawl?
No wonder your series is Oblitus, no wonder it took a huge fall
I took your mama-mia and showed her my pizza-pie
Your game isn’t scary, it just makes me wanna die
I plapped your moms cheeks, it was uncanny, get rid of your light-skin stare
I’m about to go over there and rip out your very stupid, dumb mustache hair!
But Mickey, God says in the Bible to be kind to thy neighbor
Shut up you stupid Christian!
Your opinions are fucking wrong!
Now suck on my Photo-Negative magnum dong
I’ll hit the fucking Whip and Nae-Nae all day long
Time in the Hourglass is running out on this very lit song
No one wants to hear your religious shit Oswald, can’t you understand?
I got lotion all up and down my shit, I'm a freak man…
Come over here and kiss me on my hot mouth, I’m feeling romantical
You might also like
Wah!
It’s-a-me, Wario!
And you fucking suck
Not suck like that tasty The Face gawk-gawk
I’m gonna curse your series like I did to my factory
And while I’m at it, I might as well get that Entity sloppy toppy
This is-a Wah/Fem moment if I say so myself
OH MY GOD THEY HIT THE PENTAGON, GUYS! (WAHHH!)
I’m too saddened by this news to-a continue
But you’re all queers, you all suck
Good day to you

Aw damn, we boutta get litty in this bitch
Yo, Mr. Undying I got the meth-
…
You know we stayin’ lit down in the P.C
Classic The Face is my name, don’t wear it out please
I got no fuckin’ legs bruh, that shit kinda crazy
But at least I got heroin which makes me Happy Happy
Undying…
Take the beat away…
Brotha
…
Ooo…
Fuck…
Yeah, go off bro
Let him cook, let him cook
The only thing that’ll be-a cooking is your loss
Your Cavern is stupid
No wonder they chopped off your nuts
Waaa!
Did Rosalina send me back in time again?
Because your model looks like fucking god awful dogshit like what the fuck were they thinking?

I really like your teeth, so don’t take this the wrong way
But when your jumpscare plays, Waluigi, it gets me horn-ay
They removed my fucking eyes, but I can still see you
Waluigi, please marry me

I don't have standards so "I do!"

It’s me, Bowser
And it’s Toad, bitches!
You may have one more hour
But we’ll make sure 6 AM ain’t coming bitches!
Covered in blood, guess it was your girl's time of the month
Breaking in your Casa, it ain’t no hassle
Sorry Treasure Island gang, but MOTHER is in another castle!
Burn your shitty series down, like I did to Wario’s face!
Call this shit Mario Kart, because we’re coming in first place!
*Treasure Island Jumpscare Sound*
Gorsh!
You’re all queers
You should all kill yourselves
I could feel your vibrations, it was fuckin’ shit
But not as shit as your Photoshopped series, bitch!
Sorry Bowser and Toad, it’s just business
You’re so forgotten, I’m surprised you were in this
Five Nights at Wario’s is a dumbass series
You’re only remembered because of Markiplier milkies

I’m-a shut you the-a fuck up there!
Go back to your shitty Island’s 97/20 mode
You stay Corruptus, I don’t think it’s-a fair
Although I agree, gays don’t deserve rights, you Goofy chode
Wahoo! Let’s-a-go!
Mario is back bro!
And this time, my back-up won’t be-a shitty
Introducing my sister, Luigi
Oh-a-no!
I can’t believe Luigi killed herself!
Why?! What could of-a stopped me from losing my beloved sister?

Kill yourself you transphobic fuck!

It too early for Chrimas
It too early to diss you
It too early to stop cheating on my wife with The Face
It is too early for my Casa Tip to be warded away
It’s me, Mr. Casa, and I am here to stay
You know up in that Attic, I got that WD-NoSquee
You know I’m also smashing that Classic The Face-ussy
I may of been locked to Custom Night in the first game
But Mr. Casa will never-ever go the fuck away
It too early to pay my child support-

That’s why I haven’t been getting it?
Because you’re such a dead-beat you refuse to pay it?
Do you not know how hard it is to raise 9 fucking children?
And the fact you’re on here talking about our little The Face incident?
Oh look guys, it’s my ex-wife Mrs. Casa here
Why won’t you just let me continue searching for the milk in peace?
We were abandoned for over 20 YEARS HOW THE FUCK DO WE HAVE MILK ON THIS GODDAMN ISLAND?!
And can you for once in your life, stop saying “It too early?”
Like Jesus Christ, what the fuck did I ever see in you in the first place?
Is it too early for you to stop being a bitch?
That’s it Pete
Uh oh

You never managed to pay your child support on time!
Now your stupid ass also can't bust any rhymes!
As our kids MOTHER, Hourglass will rise!
And you Pete, you're gonna fucking die!
Your Casa was a waste of time!
Don't bother trying to deny!
When Undying has more personality then you, you should just fucking die!
The Face, I'm glad I never saw you as a son!
Because you're all dead to me, bitch!
Don't bother trying to run
*MickMick's Jumpscare Noise*

And now for my fire mixtape
Baldi, Baldi!
Baldi’s in the elevator
I got a shiny new quarter in the elevator
Baldi-
You just keep-Embed