4 ContributorsStyles Dropped/Lessons Taught Lyrics Yo, you hear about them weak kids poppin' all that bull about the PRT posse? Y'know what I'm sayin, about Northside Productions?
 Word 'em up
 Yo, they said that we weak, y'know what I'm sayin? But they was just as broke'd out as the next man, y'know what I'm sayin? When the lunch truck came around, they was the first ones in line, snatchin' and takin' mine! Hit 'em!
Boy I'll drop - funky new radical hip hop
Watch not wait
Open up your third eye its for seeing
God, seeming to be ruling up in hip hop. Stop
No need to drop my righteous state of being I'm just another
Wise civilized black brother
Meditating, teaching what I thought should be taught
You're sellin coke - but what if there were no one there to smoke?
You'd be broke
So cease in the name of the law
Everybody, simply hiply hop as I drop it, Islamic
Each and every topic manifested
Undressed it, request it
Accept it, don't stop it
Logic, we had to let the naked booty bless it
Test it - see if it was naked enough for records
Press it -  keep it away from people that would sex it
Wise - poorly righteous teachin' with the positive thought
As I drop my style, I let the lessons be taught
Wise teaching the untaught thought from the heart
But some have not caught what I'm saying -
Hip hop drops - but don't stop me - family
(Wise be ain't for no playin!)
Stone, symbolic to a hard god
Let me speak, the seven and a half must teach much peace
The voice from my brother  tell you separately
See - PRT posse, smooth - like the voices that flow with the sample
I get rough when the wind like rhyme blow
Teacher - so I'm not following leaders you know? (Leaders follow the way that the Wise go!)
Yes! Why equals knowledge born
All those with it say "word is bond" (word is bond!)
I give my life if my word should fail
It's all a part of the life that I live
Nope, I'm not a snake so I don't conceal
I born the truth in the rhymes that I give
But I thought, as I drop my style I let the lessons be taught
You might also likeI be droppin, quote say I'm toppin the topic Islamic
But let ask the students I teach - I'm sole controlling
All the mics I be holding
Watch mental heights that I reach I profile
Funky new radical style
I be stylin this style, flauntin my new styles of speech
Gotta teach, and those that be lost I will find them of course -
Then give them the power to speak
Like a captain,   the head of lieutenants
Funky new music I'm in it, spin it -
Life let the lessons begin
One to ten, we're all original men, come again
Poor Righteous Teachers are not making friends -
Don't believe it ask Tim - Baylor - cause Tim Baylor's a failure I tell you
He was slippin and slipped his whole label
They're unable to come up with hits (cause they ain't kickin shit)
I'm the teacher
Give me a set to protest what I test, In Divine Land Projects
Sneaky snakes, Divine City records these snakes that I speak of
Tamper with Poor Righteous Teachers but please!
Don't they know Poor Righteous Teachers are large?
Built from this family of Gods?
 of a positive thought
As I drop my styles, I let the lessons be taught
I'm the teacher, students acknowledge the weight of my thought
Or be caught in the web of those devils
God's no illusion, I'm the teacher, I teach
Wise be not racist or rebel
I swing, while wearing the crown of the king
Vibe for vibe,  I'm pulling you have seen
Poor Righteous Teachers were wisely teaching
That of the unseen
Wait
With your thought can I obtain
Feel the vibe from the crescent of Wise's brain
Droppin' pain if you claim to entertain
Power spoken, savage tamed, smooth and plain
Well yes the intellect
Lessons dropped with no sweat
I step off, you say 'damn that shit was caught'
Style dropped, lessons taught
Word is bond, as I drop my style I let the lessons be taughtEmbed