2 ContributorsWhere Ya Love At Lyrics
Straight G, know what I'm saying
They got me loc'd on the west coast
What's up westside, it's Mr. Mike
That's right

Now who got love for them ballas and them so called g's?
Turn around let me fix your collar ya'll can mob with me
Get in, we gone with the wind like Clark Gable
It's dark but I'm able to see cause Mr. is a G
I'm peepin' this nigga turning up his nose when I enter
Remember we all sinners I'm no better then ya'll niggas
So what makes you think that you better than me?
I know that gang truce is useless but who gives a damn if we
Shot up the block not the cops oh they lovin it
Not the government they'd rather see us tearin up shit
I'm bumpin this on the creep through my hoody
And looky looky some rookies gettin' took for they cookies. Because they rookies
Quietly roll off into the sunset
Askin' all my knockers and they jockers where ya love at
I'm tryin to put my ghetto back on the map
Without you haters turning up ya face before you give me dap. What's the haps?
Every now and then I wanna ask them, where ya love at?
You might also likeThey sent your homie to the pen back when ya'll use to kick it, kickin up dust and stuff he still ain't got your visit. (wow)
Now you hittin' on his lady claiming you checking on the baby, driving a Mercedes thinking that life is all gravy
You forgot about ya homie, that nigga lonely
He wrote you letters on how ya'll was down for whatever
You glancing at ya chances of writing back, probably never
Found yourself some new partners and you callin' them ya knocka's
How's the weather?
Changing like you
We use to pour out brew, now you slangin them thangs hanging with a new crew
Do you see what I see? Probably not
Take the coward up to Hobby, catch the first thing leaving out
Cause homies in the hood don't play that
Cause homies in the hood understood the real payback, they stay that
What goes around comes around is now or never better get yourself together
Every now and then I wanna ask them, where ya love at?
I see this through G-ness sometimes I don't believe this colored skin got brothers in dispute with the truth
Got to reach the youth, Alizé and you thinkin weed and brew got you bulletproof
I'm pulling you into a clear view
How can his mamma stop his drama if she at the club and coming home late while he investigate who daddy was
It's never love only slaps pushes and shoves, she sadly turned her son into a a thug. But What?
That's how it be, you know what I'm sayin'
In the ghetto, er'body on the block wanna be hard
The hardest thing about being hard is being real
Know what I'm sayin'. That's for the real. Mr. Mike '97 all the way to heavenEmbed