2 ContributorsThe Verdict Lyrics
Yeah, we solve all them cases
Phoenix and Maya, we aces
They always be contradictory
That's how we end with a victory
Yeah, we solve all them cases
Phoenix and Maya, we aces
They always be contradictory
That's how we end with a victory
Yeah, we solve all them cases
Phoenix and Maya, we aces
They always be contradictory
That's how we end with a victory
Yeah, we solve all them cases
Phoenix and Maya, we aces
They always be contradictory
That's how we end with a victory

Fuck. Maya, I can't find any clues or leads or anything around here!
Man, we lookin' for clues, yeah, we out investigating
Just to use that proof in that cross-examination
Need the studio access, here negotiating
But Oldbag's being a bitch, man, it's so frustrating, like fuck
You might also likeHad to trade some fuckin' cards to get in
Had to deal with that little sneak Cody Hackins
Ain't got no help from that dumb detective
Gumshoe scratch his head like he defective, but
Mr. Monkey blocked the path? Really suspicious!
Think I could use that evidence when I question the witness
This one fact might gain a winning position
Might just be the proof we need, bring that culprit to submission
Victory on my tongue, I see the whole damn vision!
Me and Maya raising fists, 'cause we made it to the finish
But I got a lotta doubts, man, I gotta admit it!
I don't think I got enough for WP to get acquitted!
Will Powers look real guilty, that's how it do appear
He the only one who could've handled that big ass heavy spear
But I know he so innocent, he the samurai of steel
Out at Wright & Co. with Maya askin' "Any ideas?"
But hmpph. We out of leads, man, I wish she'd turn to Mia
With Edgeworth pullin' strings, you know that shit I'm gonna need ya
I'm tryna find a fuckin' link, man, to make the motive so clear
Man, I'm searchin' and I'm searchin', but there's... no clues here. No clues here

Guess you need a little help from beyond the grave for this one
Listen closely, I won't be here long
Mia Fey
If you don't want these tits then you gay
Go away
Lock you up like that bitch April May
Protege
Using Maya to show him the way
Final day
Make his head hurt, yeah Edgeworth ain't safe
Might be ghostly
With no body
Still you want these racks in yo face
From the Fey clan
And even fake fans
Already know I'm pullin' my weight
Pleading guilty
'Cause I throw heat
To the prosecution all day
My apprentice here, he's an ace
We the spirits winnin' this case
I'm defending the client we're speaking to
Though it's my sister Maya I'm speaking through
Phoenix Wright, yeah, I choose to be haunting you
I think I couldn't lose if I wanted to
Imma manifest to the witness talking with Gumshoe
Oh, I can't rest, unfinished business, coming to the rescue
Hit with a big clock, by the Blue Corp and I got damn proof
Though we can't talk, I wanna say Maya, I still love you

Phoenix Wright
What a pathetic joke of an attorney
You're not getting this one
They call me Edgy 'cause I'm Edgeworth
And the court would like to know
How do you expect to think you're gonna win this case
When you've got no leads, ergo:
You've thrown this battle, Wright
You're practically a goner
You have no clue what you're doing
The prosecution is ready, Your Honor
They say every puzzle has an answer
But this one I'll make sure you won't find
When it comes to pointing fingers, you're a chancer
The prosecution will not be kind
Every time it's the same shit
Defending people that are just plain guilty
You won a few cases in the past
But I promise that you just got lucky
You went barking up the wrong tree
When you tried to try Ms. Oldbag
You didn't suspect a thing of Dee
When Jack Hammer's eyes rolled back
In his head
Like Mr. Monkey, the path is blocked
This courtroom I just rocked
For me, this case is locked
Your attorney career has flopped
The Demon Prosecutor
That's what they call me
Nobody does it better
You're not Edge-worthy
Got so many witnesses
Who said your guy did it
Just give up, you've lost this one
Now just admit it

JUDGE: Mr. Wright, you may begin your cross-examination
PHOENIX: The defense is ready your honor!

I always find the right string at the last second
We even knew the clock statue was a weapon
Oh, you think it's far-fetched? I'm gonna hit you with (Objection!)
Hands slamming on the desk with so much aggression
I make a witness sweat, so I can squeeze out a confession
Finding homie after homie not guilty with no effort
I don't lose, add another win to my ledger
Got your bitch in my pocket, add her to my court record
Pfft, I ain't scared of no Edgeworth
I got Maya to my right, she's my number one, no lesser
Point my finger at the witness, that's my favorite gesture
I present evidence under so much pressure
Dee Vasquez, I know you smoked Jack Hammer!
Had the help of that goddamn slob Sal Manella
I see right through your lies, you're a liar, you're a scammer
And I make your ass confess, I'm the best attorney ever!
(Take that!)
JUDGE: Order! I said order!Embed