1 ContributorAlliterative Morte Arthure, Part II LyricsThen answers Sir Arthur   to that old wife:           woman
"I am comen fro the conquerour,   courtais and gentle,
As one of the hathelest   of Arthure knightes,           most manly
Messenger to this mix,   for mendement of the pople           dung; amendment
To mele with this master man   that here this mount yemes,           speak; possess
To trete with this tyraunt   for tresure of landes
And take trew for a time,   to better may worthe."           truce; until; be
"Ya, thir wordes are but waste,"   quod this wife then,           these; woman
"For both landes and lythes   full little by he settes;           nations he thinks little of
Of rentes ne of red gold   reckes he never,           reckons
For he will lenge out of law,   as himself thinkes,           live outside the law
Withouten license of lede,   as lord in his owen.           prince; own right
But he has a kirtle on,   keeped for himselven,           gown
That was spunnen in Spain   with special birdes           by maidens
And sithen garnisht in Greece   full graithely togeders;           sewn; readily
It is hided all with here,   holly all over           covered; hair; wholly
And borderd with the berdes   of burlich kinges,           beards; stately
Crisped and combed   that kempes may know           Curled; warriors
Ich king by his colour,   in kith there he lenges.           Each; country
Here the fermes he fanges   of fifteen rewmes,           revenues; seizes
For ilke Estern even,   however that it fall,           Easter eve
They send it him soothly   for saught of the pople,           peace
Sekerly at that sesoun   with certain knightes.
And he has asked Arthure   all this seven winter;           asked for Arthur's (beard)
Forthy hurdes he here   to outraye his pople           Therefore dwells; outrage
Til the Britones king   have burnisht his lippes           shaved
And sent his berde to that bold   with his best bernes;
But thou have brought that berde   boun thee no further,
For it is a bootless bale   thou biddes ought elles,           For it will be a sorrow without remedy if you offer him anything else
For he has more tresure   to take when him likes
Than ever ought Arthur   or any of his elders.           owned
If thou have brought the berde   he bes more blithe           will be
Than thou gave him Borgoine   or Britain the More;           Burgundy; Great Britain
But look now, for charitee,   thou chasty thy lippes           close
That thee no wordes escape,   whatso betides.
Look thy present be preste   and press him but little,           swift
For he is at his souper;   he will be soon greved.           dinner; easily annoyed
And thou my counsel do,   thou dos off thy clothes           if; take; armour
And kneel in thy kirtle   and call him thy lord.           gown
He soupes all this sesoun   with seven knave childer,           dines; on; male children
Chopped in a chargeur   of chalk-white silver,           serving dish
With pickle and powder   of precious spices,
And piment full plenteous   of Portingale wines;           spiced wine; Portuguese
Three balefull birdes   his broches they turn,           sad maidens; spits
That bides his bedgatt,   his bidding to work;           bedtime; do
Such four sholde be fey   within four houres           dead
Ere his filth were filled   that his flesh yernes."           satisfied; yearns
"Ya, I have brought the berde,"   quod he, "the better me likes;
Forthy will I boun me   and bere it myselven           go; bear
But, lefe, wolde thou lere me   where that lede lenges?           dear; teach; man
I shall alowe thee, and I live,   Our Lord so me help!"           praise thee if
"Ferk fast to the fire," quod sho,   "that flames so high;           Go
There filles that fend him,   fraist when thee likes.           There that fiend fills himself, to try when you please
But thou moste seek more south,   sidlings a little,           go; sidewise
For he will have scent himselve   six mile large."           away
To the source of the reek   he sought at the gainest,           smoke; went; quickest
Sained him sekerly   with certain wordes,           Crossed himself
And sidlings of the segge   the sight had he reched           sidewise; man; reached
How unseemly that sot sat   soupand him one!           dining alone
He lay lenand on long, lodgand unfair,           stretched out; lodging
The thee of a mans limm   lift up by the haunch;           thigh; limb
His back and his beuschers   and his brode lendes           buttocks; loins
He bakes at the bale-fire   and breekless him seemed;           warms; without trousers
There were rostes full rude   and rewful bredes,           roasts; roast meats
Bernes and bestail   broched togeders,           Men; beasts spitted
Cowle full crammed   of crismed childer,           Tub; baptized children
Some as bred broched   and birdes them turned.           roasts spitted; maidens
And then this comlich king,   because of his pople,           comely
His herte bleedes for bale   on bente where he standes;           pain; ground
Then he dressed on his sheld,   shuntes no lenger,           holds back no longer
Braundisht his brode sword   by the bright hiltes,
Raikes toward that renk   right with a rude will           Rushes; man
And hiely hailses that hulk   with hautain wordes:           hastily greets; proud
"Now, All-weldand God   that worshippes us all           All-ruling; honours
Give thee sorrow and site,   sot, there thou ligges,           grief; lie
For the foulsomest freke   that formed was ever!           foulest man
Foully thou feedes thee!   The Fend have thy soul!
Here is cury unclene,   carl, by my trewth,           cooking; churl; word
Caff of creatures all,   thou cursed wretch!           Chaff
Because that thou killed has   these crismed childer,           baptized children
Thou has martyrs made   and brought out of life
That here are broched on bente   and brittened with thy handes,           Those who are roasted on spits in the field and broken with your hands
I shall merk thee thy meed   as thou has much served,           assign; reward; deserved
Through might of Saint Michel   that this mount yemes!           possesses
And for this fair lady   that thou has fey leved           As
And thus forced on folde   for filth of thyselven,           raped; earth
Dress thee now, dog-son,   the devil have thy soul!           Prepare yourself
For thou shall die this day   through dint of my handes!"
Then glopined the glutton   and glored unfair;           was terrified; glared
He grenned as a grayhound   with grisly tuskes;           snarled
He gaped, he groned fast   with grouchand lates           groaned; grudging expressions
For gref of the good king   that him with grame greetes.           anger
His fax and his foretop   was filtered togeders           hair; forelock; matted
And out of his face fom   an half foot large;           foam; long
His front and his forheved,   all was it over           face; forehead
As the fell of a frosk   and frakned it seemed;           skin; frog; freckled
Hook-nebbed as a hawk,   and a hore berde,           Hook-nosed; grey
And hered to the eyen-holes   with hangand browes;           haired; eye-holes
Harsk as a hound-fish,   hardly who-so lookes,           Harsh; intently
So was the hide of that hulk   holly all over;           wholly
Erne had he full huge   and ugly to shew           Ears; be seen
With eyen full horrible   and ardaunt for sooth;           eyes; flaming
Flat-mouthed as a fluke   with fleriand lippes,           flounder; sneering
And the flesh in his fore-teeth   fouly as a bere;           foul; bear
His berde was brothy and blak   that til his breste reched;           fierce
Grassed as a mere-swine   with carkes full huge           Fat; dolphin; carcass
And all faltered the flesh   in his foul lippes,           quivered
Ilke wrethe as a wolf-heved   it wrath out at ones!           Each fold (in his lips) at once twisted out like the head of a wolf
Bull-necked was that berne   and brode in the shoulders,
Brok-brested as a brawn   with bristeles full large,           Spotted-breasted; boar
Rude armes as an oke   with ruskled sides,           oak; wrinkled
Limm and leskes full lothen,   leve ye for sooth;           Limbs and loins very loathsome, believe you truly
Shovel-footed was that shalk   and shaland him seemed,           man; bow-legged
With shankes unshapely   shovand togeders;           shoving (i.e., knock-kneed)
Thick thees as a thurse   and thicker in the haunch,           thighs; giant
Grees-growen as a galt,   full grillich he lookes!           Fat; pig; horrible
Who the lenghe of the lede   lely accountes,           Length; man carefully
Fro the face to the foot   was five fadom long!           fathoms
Then stertes he up sturdily   on two stiff shankes,           leaps
And soon he caught him a club   all of clene iron;
He wolde have killed the king   with his keen wepen,           fierce weapon
But through the craft of Crist   yet the carl failed;           churl
The crest and the coronal,   the claspes of silver,           diadem
Clenly with his club   he crashed down at ones!
The king castes up his sheld   and covers him fair,
And with his burlich brand   a box he him reches;           stately; reaches to him
Full butt in the front   the fromand he hittes           face; monster
That the burnisht blade   to the brain runnes;
He feyed his fysnamie   with his foul handes           wiped; face
And frappes fast at his face   fersly there-after!           strikes; Arthur's; fiercely
The king changes his foot,   eschewes a little;           retreats
Ne had he eschaped that chop,   cheved had evil;           escaped; won
He follows in fersly   and fastenes a dint           strikes a blow
High up on the haunch   with his hard wepen           weapon
That he heled the sword   half a foot large;           buried; deep
The hot blood of the hulk   unto the hilt runnes;
Even into the in-mete   the giaunt he hittes           intestines
Just to the genitals   and jagged them in sonder!           right up to; cut; asunder
Then he romed and rored   and rudely he strikes           bellowed; roared
Full egerly at Arthur   and on the erthe hittes;           eagerly
A sword-lenghe within the swarth   he swappes at ones           ground; strikes
That ner swoones the king   for swough of his dintes!           sound
But yet the king sweperly   full swithe he beswenkes,           swiftly; quickly; works
Swappes in with the sword   that it the swang bristed;           Strikes; loins burst
Both the guttes and the gore   gushes out at ones.
That all englaimes the grass   on ground there he standes!           makes slimy
Then he castes the club   and the king hentes;           throws away; seizes
On the crest of the crag   he caught him in armes,
And encloses him clenly   to crushen his ribbes;
So hard holdes he that hende   that ner his herte bristes!           noble; bursts
Then the baleful birdes   bounes to the erthe,           sad maidens fall
Kneeland and cryand   and clapped their handes;           clasped
"Crist comfort yon knight   and keep him fro sorrow,
And let never yon fend   fell him o life!"           fiend; kill him
Yet is that warlaw so wight   he welters him under;           warlock; rolls
Wrothly they writhen   and wrestle togeders,
Welters and wallows over   within those buskes,           bushes
Tumbelles and turnes fast   and teres their weedes,           Tumble; tear; clothes
Untenderly fro the top   they tilten togeders,           topple
Whilom Arthur over   and other while under,           At times
Fro the heghe of the hill   unto the hard rock,           height
They feyne never ere they fall   at the flood marches;
But Arthur with an anlace   egerly smites           dagger
And hittes ever in the hulk   up to the hiltes.
The thef at the ded-throwes   so throly him thringes           In his death-throes the thief squeezes him so fiercely
That three ribbes in his side   he thrustes in sonder!           breaks asunder
Then Sir Kayous the keen   unto the king stertes,           leaps
Said: "Alas!   We are lorn!   My lord is confounded,           lost
Over-fallen with a fend!   Us is foul happned!           Overthrown by
We mon be forfeited, in faith,   and flemed forever!"           must; exiled
They heve up his hawberk then   and handelles there-under           lift; handle
His hide and his haunch eek   on height to the shoulders,           also; up
His flank and his felettes   and his fair sides,           loins
Both his back and his breste   and his bright armes.
They were fain that they fande   no flesh entamed           glad; found injured
And for that journee made joy,   thir gentle knightes.           day's fighting; these
"Now certes," says Sir Bedvere,   "it seemes, by my Lord,
He seekes saintes but selden,   the sorer he grippes,           seldom; more severely
That thus clekes this corsaint   out of thir high cliffes,           drags; holy body; these
To carry forth such a carl   at close him in silver;           churl to enclose
By Michel, of such a mak   I have much wonder           fellow
That ever our soveraign Lord   suffers him in heven!
And all saintes be such   that serves our Lord           If
I shall never no saint be,   by my fader soul!"           father's
Then bourdes the bold king   at Bedvere wordes:           jokes; Bedivere's
"This saint have I sought,   so help me our Lord!
Forthy braid out thy brand   and broche him to the herte;           draw; spit
Be seker of this sergeaunt;   he has me sore greved!           fellow
I fought not with such a freke   this fifteen winter;
But in the mountes of Araby   I met such another;
He was forcier by fer   that had I nere founden;           He was stronger by far than any I had ever found
Ne had my fortune been fair,   fey had I leved!
Anon strike off his heved   and stake it thereafter;           Quickly strike off his head and put it on a stake thereafter
Give it to thy squier,   for he is well horsed,           squire
Bere it to Sir Howell   that is in hard bondes           bonds of sorrow
And bid him herte him well;   his enmy is destroyed!           hearten; enemy
Senn bere it to Barflete   and brace it in iron           Barfleur
And set it on the barbican   bernes to shew.           main-gate tower
My brand and my brode sheld   upon the bente ligges,           ground lie
On the crest of the crag   there first we encountered,
And the club there-by,   all of clene iron,
That many Cristen has killed   in Constantine landes;           Peninsula of Cotentin
Ferk to the fore-land   and fetch me that wepen           Go; promontary; weapon
And let found to our fleet   in flood there it lenges.           let us go
If thou will any tresure,   take what thee likes;           want; treasure
Have I the kirtle and the club,   I covet nought elles."           gown; else
Now they kaire to the crag,   these comlich knightes,           comely
And brought him the brode sheld   and his bright wepen,
The club and the cote als,   Sir Kayous himselven,           Sir Kay himself brings the club and the coat as well
And kaires with the conquerour   the kinges to shew.
That in covert the king held   close to himselven           Yet
While clene day fro the cloud   climbed on loft.
By that to court was comen   clamour full huge,           By that time
And before the comlich king   they kneeled all at ones:
"Welcome, our lege lord,   to long has thou dwelled!           liege
Governour under God,   graithest and noble,           most active
To whom grace is graunted   and given at His will
Now thy comly come   has comforted us all!           coming
Thou has in thy realtee   revenged thy pople!           royalty
Through help of thy hand   thine enmies are stroyed,           destroyed
That has thy renkes over-run   and reft them their childer;           bereft
Was never rewm out of array   so redyly releved!"           disordered realm; relieved
Then the conquerour Cristenly   carpes to his pople:           Christianly
"Thankes God," quod he, "of this grace   and no gome elles,           man
For it was never mans deed,   but might of Himselven
Or miracle of his Moder,   that mild is til all!"
He summond then the shipmen   sharply thereafter,
To shake forth with the shire-men   to shift the goodes:           go; men of the shire
"All the much tresure   that traitour had wonnen
To commouns of the countree,   clergy and other,
Look it be done and delt   to my dere pople           dealt out
That none plain of their part   o pain of your lives."           complain; on
He commaunde his cosin,   with knightlich wordes,           commanded
To make a kirk on that crag,   there the corse ligges           church; body
And a covent there-in,   Crist for to serve,           monastery
In mind of that martyr   that in the mount restes.           memory; i.e., the duchess
When Sir Arthur the king   had killed the giaunt,
Then blithely fro Barflete   he buskes on the morn,           goes
With his batail on brede   by tho blithe stremes;           With his battalion spread out by those calm streams
Toward Castel Blank   he cheses him the way,           goes
Through a fair champain   under chalk hilles;           open plain
The king fraistes a furth   over the fresh strandes,           seeks; ford
Foundes with his fair folk   over as him likes;           Goes
Forth steppes that steren   and strekes his tents           stern (one); stretches out
On a strenghe by a streme,   in those strait landes.           stronghold; narrow
Anon after mid-day,   in the mene-while,           meanwhile
There comes two messengers   of tho fer marches,           from those far
Fro the Marshal of Fraunce,   and menskfully him greetes,           honourably
Besought him of succour   and said him these wordes:
"Sir, thy Marshal, thy minister,   thy mercy beseekes,
Of thy mikel magistee,   for mendment of thy pople,           great majesty; amendment
Of these marches-men   that thus are miscarried           men of the marches
And thus marred among   maugree their eyen;           harmed in spite of
I witter thee the Emperour   is enterd into Fraunce           assure
With hostes of enmies,   horrible and huge;
Brinnes in Burgoine   thy burges so rich,           Burns; Burgundy; cities
And brittenes thy baronage   that beldes there-in;           beats down; dwells
He encroches keenly   by craftes of armes           invades
Countrees and casteles   that to thy crown longes,           belong
Confoundes thy commouns,   clergy and other;           Destroys; citizens
But thou comfort them, Sir King,   cover shall they never!           Unless; recover
He felles forestes fele,   forrays thy landes,           many; plunders
Frithes no fraunches,   but frayes the pople;           Spares; liberty; affrights
Thus he felles thy folk   and fanges their goodes;           slays; seizes
Fremedly the French tonge   fey is beleved.           By foreigners the French tongue is destroyed
He drawes into douce Fraunce,   as Dutch-men telles,           sweet; Germans
Dressed with his dragons,   dredful to shew;
All to dede they dight   with dintes of swordes,           death; put
Dukes and douspeeres   that dreches there-in;           Stay
Forthy the lordes of the land,   ladies and other,
Prayes thee for Petere love,   the apostle of Rome,
Senn thou art present in place,   that thou will proffer make           i.e., make war
To that perilous prince   by process of time.           Against
He ayers by yon hilles,   yon high holtes under,           goes
Hoves there with hole strenghe   of hethen knightes;           Waits; force
Help now for His love   that high in heven sittes
And talk tristly to them   that thus us destroyes!"           boldly
The king biddes Sir Bois:   "Busk thee belive!           Go; quickly
Take with thee Sir Berille   and Bedvere the rich,
Sir Gawain and Sir Grime,   these galiard knightes,           jolly
And graith you to yon green woodes   and gos on thir needes;           do this errand
Says to Sir Lucius   too unlordly he workes
Thus litherly againes law   to lede my pople;           wickedly; treat
I let him ere ought long,   yif me the life happen,           I shall stop him before much longer if life is granted to me
Or many light shall low   that him over land followes;
Commaund him keenly   with cruel wordes
Kaire out of my kingrik   with his kidd knightes;           Go; kingdom
In case that he will not,   that cursed wretch,
Come for his courtaisy   and counter me ones;           courtesy; encounter
Then shall we reckon full rathe   what right that he claimes,           quickly
Thus to riot this rewm   and ransoun the pople!           ravage
There shall it derely be delt   with dintes of handes;           dearly; dealt
The Drighten at Doomesday   dele as Him likes!"           Lord; deal
Now they graith them to go,   these galiard knightes,           prepare; jolly
All glitterand in gold,   upon grete steedes
Toward the green wood,   with grounden wepen,           sharpened
To greet well the grete lord   that wolde be greved soon.
These hende hoves on a hill   by the holt eves           These courteous ones wait on a hill by the edge of the wood
Beheld the housing full high   of hethen kinges;           noble; heathen
They herde in their herberage   hundrethes full many           dwellings
Hornes of olyfantes   full highlich blowen;           elephants; loudly
Palaises proudly pight,   that paled were rich           Palaces (rich tents) proudly pitched
Of pall and of purpure,   with precious stones;           That had walls of silk and purple cloth adorned with precious stones
Pensels and pomells   of rich princes armes           Pennons; tent-pommels
Pight in the plain mede   the pople to shew.           Placed; meadow
And then the Romans so rich   had arrayed their tentes
On row by the river   under the round hilles,
The Emperour for honour   even in the middes,           exactly
With egles all over   ennelled so fair;           eagles; decorated
And saw him and the Sowdan   and senatours many           Sultan
Seek toward a sale   with sixteen kinges           Go; hall
Syland softly in,   sweetly by themselven,           Gliding
To soupe with that soverain   full selcouthe metes.           dine; rare foods
Now they wend over the water,   these worshipful knightes,
Through the wood to the wonne   there the wyes restes;           dwelling
Right as they had weshen   and went to the table,           washed
Sir Wawain the worthy   unwinly he spekes:           unfriendly; speaks
"The might and the majestee   that menskes us all,           honours
That was merked and made   through the might of Himselven,           formed
Give you site in your sete,   Sowdan and other,           grief; seat
That here are sembled in sale;   unsaught mot ye worthe!           hall; troubled; be
And the false heretik   that Emperour him calles,
That occupies in errour   the Empire of Rome,
Sir Arthure heritage,   that honourable king
That all his auncestres ought   but Uter him one,           ancestors owned
That ilke cursing that Caim   caught for his brother           Cain
Cleve on thee, cuckewald,   with crown there thou lenges,           Cleave; cuckold
For the unlordliest lede   that I on looked ever!
My lord marveles him mikel,   man, by my trewth,           much; word
Why thou murtheres his men   that no misse serves,           murder; trouble deserve
Commouns of the countree,   clergy and other,
That are nought coupable there-in,   ne knowes nought in armes,           guilty
Forthy the comlich king,   courtais and noble,
Commaundes thee keenly   to kaire of his landes           out of
Or elles for thy knighthede   encounter him ones.           knighthood
Senn thou covetes the crown,   let it be declared!
I have discharged me here,   challenge who likes,           done my duty
Before all thy chevalry,   cheftaines and other.
Shape us an answer,   and shunt thou no lenger,           hold back
That we may shift at the short   and shew to my lord."           go quickly
The Emperour answerd   with austeren wordes:           austere
"Ye are with mine enmy,   Sir Arthur himselven;
It is none honour to me   to outraye his knightes,           do violence to
Though ye be irous men   that ayers on his needes;           angry; go; errands
Ne were it not for reverence   of my rich table,
Thou sholde repent full rathe   of thy rude wordes!           quickly
Such a rebawd as thou   rebuke any lordes           low fellow
With their retinues arrayed,   full real and noble!
But say to thy soveraign   I send him these wordes:
Here will I sujourn,   whiles me lefe thinkes,           it seems good
And sithen seek in by Seine   with solace thereafter,           then go
Ensege all the citees   by the salt strandes,           Besiege
And senn ride in by Rhone   that runnes so fair,
And of his rich casteles   rush down the walles;
I shall nought leve in Paris,   by process of time,           Within a short time I shall not leave him in Paris
His part of a pecheline,   prove when him likes!"           So much as a tiny spot; let him test this when he pleases
"Now certes," says Sir Wawain,   "much wonder have I
That such a alfin as thou   dare speke such wordes!           foolish person
I had lever than all Fraunce,   that heved is of rewmes,           rather; head
Fight with thee faithfully   on feld by our one!"
Then answers Sir Gayous   full gabbed wordes -           foolish
Was eme to the Emperour   and erl himselven:           uncle
"Ever were these Bretons   braggers of old!           Britons
Lo, how he brawles him   for his bright weedes,           armour
As he might britten us all   with his brand rich!           beat down; sword
Yet he barkes much boste,   yon boy there he standes!"           boast; knave
Then greved Sir Gawain   at his grete wordes,
Graithes toward the gome   with grouchand herte;           Goes; man; angry
With his steelen brand   he strikes off his heved,           steel
And stertes out to his steed,   and with his stale wendes.           leaps; company
Through the watches they went,   these worshipful knightes,
And findes in their fare-way   wonderlich many;           path wondrously
Over the water they went   by wightness of horses,
And took wind as they wolde   by the wood hemmes.           edges of the wood
Then follows frekly on foot   frekes ynow,           fiercely; warriors
And of the Romans arrayed   upon rich steedes
Chased through a champain   our chevalrous knightes           open field
Til a chef forest   on chalk-white horses.           large
But a freke all in fine gold   and fretted in sable           adorned
Come furthermost on a Freson   in flamand weedes;           Frisian horse; bright armour
A fair flourisht spere   in fewter he castes,           spear-rest
And followes fast on our folk   and freshly ascries.           eagerly cries
Then Sir Gawain the good   upon a gray steed
He grippes him a grete spere   and graithly him hittes;           readily
Through the guttes into the gore   he girdes him even,           smites
That the grounden steel   glides to his herte!           sharpened
The gome and the grete horse   at the ground ligges,           man; lies
Full grislich gronand   for gref of his woundes.           grisly groaning; grief
Then presses a priker in,   full proudly arrayed,           rider
That beres all of purpure,   paled with silver           That bears on his shield a heraldic device al of purple, striped with silver
Bigly on a brown steed   he proffers full large.           With great force, on a brown horse, he offers battle boldly
He was a paynim of Perse   that thus him persewed;           pagan; Persia
Sir Boys, unabaist all, he buskes him againes;           unabashed
With a bustous launce   he beres him through,           wild
That the breme and the brode sheld   upon the bente ligges!           fierce one
And he bringes forth the blade   and bounes to his fellowes.           goes
Then Sir Feltemour, of might   a man mikel praised,           much
Was moved on his manner   and menaced full fast;
He graithes to Sir Gawain   graithly to work,           charges at; readily
For gref of Sir Gayous   that is on ground leved.
Then Sir Gawain was glad;   again him he rides;
With Galuth, his good sword,   graithly him hittes;           readily
The knight on the courser   he cleved in sonder,           cleaved in two
Clenlich fro the crown   his corse he devised,           Cleanly; body he divided
And thus he killes the knight   with his kidd wepen.           famous
Then a rich man of Rome   relied to his bernes:           rallied
"It shall repent us full sore   and we ride further!           if
Yon are bold bosters   that such bale workes;           boasters; evil
It befell him full foul   that them so first named!"
Then the rich Romans   returnes their bridles,           turn back
To their tentes in teen,   telles their lordes           grief
How Sir Marshall de Mowne   is on the molde leved,           ground
Forjousted at that journee   for his grete japes.           Outjousted at that battle despite his great boasts
But there chases on our men   chevalrous knightes,
Five thousand folk   upon fair steedes,
Fast to a forest   over a fell water           swift
That filles fro the fallow se   fifty mile large.           is filled; pale sea; away
There were Bretons enbushed   and banerettes noble,           in ambush; senior knights
Of chevalry chef   of the kinges chamber;
Sees them chase our men   and changen their horses           redirect
And chop down cheftaines   that they most charged.
Then the enbushment of Bretons   broke out at ones,           ambush
Brothly at banner   all Bedvere knightes           Boldly; Bedivere's
Arrested of the Romans   that by the firth rides,           wood
All the realest renkes   that to Rome longes;           belongs
They ishe on the enmies   and egerly strikes,           rush
Erles of England,   and "Arthur!" ascries;           cries
Through brenyes and bright sheldes   brestes they thirle,           hauberks; pierce
Bretons of the boldest,   with their bright swordes.
There was Romans over-ridden   and rudely wounded,
Arrested as rebawdes   with riotous knightes!           low fellows
The Romans out of array   removed at ones           broke ranks
And rides away in a rout - for reddour it seemes!           fear
To the Senatour Peter   a sandesman is comen           messenger
And said: "Sir, sekerly,   your segges are surprised!"           men; seized
Then ten thousand men   he sembled at ones
And set sodenly on our segges   by the salt strandes.           suddenly; men
Then were Bretons abaist   and greved a little,           abashed
But yet the bannerettes bold   and bachelers noble
Brekes that batail   with brestes of steedes;           Break; battalion
Sir Bois and his bold men   much bale workes!           pain
The Romanes redies them,   arrayes them better,           rally themselves
And all to-rushes our men   with their reste horses,           dash asunder; rested
Arrested of the richest   of the Round Table,
Over-rides our rere-ward   and grete rewth workes!           rearguard; sorrow
Then the Bretons on the bente   abides no lenger,           field
But fled to the forest   and the feld leved;
Sir Berille is borne down   and Sir Bois taken,
The best of our bold men   unblithely wounded;
But yet our stale on a strenghe   stotais a little,           company; stronghold pauses
All to-stonayed with the stokes   of tho steren knightes,           astonished; strokes
Made sorrow for their soveraign   that so there was nomen,           taken
Besought God of succour,   send when him liked!
Then comes Sir Idrus,   armed up at all rightes,           completely
With five hundreth men   upon fair steedes,
Fraines fast at our folk   freshly thereafter           Asks; eagerly
Yif their frendes were fer   that on the feld founded.           went
Then says Sir Gawain,   "So me God help,
We have been chased today   and chulled as hares,           driven like hares
Rebuked with Romanes   upon their rich steedes,
And we lurked under lee   as lowrand wretches!           shelter; lowering
I look never on my lord   the dayes of my life           May I never look on my lord the rest of my life
And we so litherly him help   that him so well liked!"           If we serve him so poorly, we who once pleased him so well
Then the Bretons brothely   broches their steedes           boldly; spur
And boldly in batail   upon the bente rides;
All the fers men before   frekly ascries,           fierce; boldly cry
Ferkand in the forest   to freshen themselven.           Striding through
The Romanes then redyly   arrayes them better,
On row on a rowm feld   rightes their wepens,           broad; adjust
By the rich river   and rewles the pople;           arrange the troops
And with reddour Sir Bois   is in arrest holden.           fear
Now they sembled unsaught   by the salt stremes;           fiercely attacked
Sadly these seker men   settes their dintes,
With lovely launces on loft   they lushen togederes,           dash together
In Lorraine so lordly   on lepand steedes.
There were gomes through-gird   with grounden wepens           pierced; sharpened
Grisly gaspand   with grouchand lates.           gasping; angry expressions
Grete lordes of Greece   greved so high.
Swiftly with swordes   they swappen thereafter,           strike
Swappes down full sweperly   sweltande knightes,           swiftly dying
That all sweltes on swarth   that they over-swingen.           die; ground; cut down
So many sways in swogh,   swoonand at ones -           faint
Sir Gawain the gracious   full graithly he workes;
The gretest he greetes   with grisly woundes;
With Galuth he girdes down   full galiard knightes,           strikes; jolly
For gref of the grete lord   so grimly he strikes!
He rides forth really   and redyly thereafter           royally
There this real renk   was in arrest holden;           To where Bois
He rives the rank steel,   he rittes their brenyes,           rips; hauberks
And reft them the rich man   and rode to his strenghes.           bereft; stronghold
The Senatour Peter   then persewed him after,           pursued
Through the press of the pople   with his pris knightes,
Appertly for the prisoner   proves his strenghes,           Openly; strength
With prikers the proudest   that to the press longes;           riders; company
Wrothly on the wrong hand   Sir Wawain he strikes,           Angrily; left
With a wepen of war   unwinly him hittes;           unpleasantly
The breny on the back half   he bristes in sonder;           hauberk; breaks in two
And yet he brought forth Sir Bois   for all their bale bernes!           Even so, Sir Gawain rescued Sir Bois despite all their baleful knights
Then the Bretons boldly   braggen their trumpes,           blow; trumpets
And for bliss of Sir Bois   was brought out of bondes,
Boldly in batail   they bere down knightes;
With brandes of brown steel   they brittened mailes;           shining; armour
They steked steedes in stour   with steelen wepens           stuck; battle; armour
And all stewede with strenghe   that stood them againes!           struck down
Sir Idrus fitz Ewain   then "Arthur!" ascries,           cries
Assembles on the senatour   with sixteen knightes           Attacks
Of the sekerest men   that to our side longed.
Sodenly in a soppe   they set in at ones,           small troop
Foines fast at the fore-breste   with flamand swordes           Strike; gleaming
And fightes fast at the front   freshly thereafter,           eagerly
Felles fele on the feld   upon the ferrer side,           many; further
Fey on the fair feld   by tho fresh strandes.           Dead
But Sir Idrus fitz Ewain   aunters himselven           risks
And enters in only   and egerly strikes,           alone
Seekes to the senatour   and seses his bridle;           seizes
Unsaughtly he said him   these sittand wordes:           Hostilely; fitting
"Yelde thee, sir, yapely,   yif thou thy life yernes;           Yield; quickly; yearn for
For giftes that thou give may   thou yeme not thyselven,           save
For, dredles, drech thou   or drop any wiles,           For, doubtless, if you delay or play any tricks
Thou shall die this day   through dint of my handes!"
"I assent," quod the senatour,   "so me Crist help.           said
So that I be safe brought   before the king selven;           Providing that
Ransoun me reasonabely,   as I may over-reche,           reasonably; obtain
After my rentes in Rome   may redyly further."           tribute; readily furnish
Then answers Sir Idrus   with austeren wordes:
"Thou shall have condicioun   as the king likes,           conditions
When thou comes to the kith   there the court holdes,
In case his counsel be   to keep thee no longer,
To be killed at his commaundement   his knightes before."
They led him forth in the rout   and latched off his weedes,           took; armour
Left him with Lionel   and Lowell his brother.
O-low in the land then,   by the lithe strandes,           Below; pleasant
Sir Lucius lege-men   lost are forever!
The Senatour Peter   is prisoner taken!
Of Perse and Port Jaffe   full many pris knightes           Persia; Jaffa (Joppa)
And much pople withal   perished themselven!
For press of the passage   they plunged at ones!           Because of the crowd at the ford they leapt into the water together
There might men see Romans   rewfully wounded,
Over-ridden with renkes   of the Round Table.
In the raike of the furth   they righten their brenyes           On the path by the stream they adjust their hauberks
That ran all on red blood   redyly all over;
They raght in the rere-ward   full riotous knightes           They placed the riotous (Roman) knights in the rear guard (as prisoners)
For ransoun of red gold   and real steedes;           noble
Redyly relayes   and restes their horses,           change horses
In route to the rich king   they rode all at ones.           company
A knight kaires before,   and to the king telles:           goes
"Sir, here comes thy messengeres   with mirthes fro the mountes;
They have been matched today   with men of the marches,
Foremagled in the morass   with marvelous knightes!           Hacked to pieces; marsh
We have foughten, in faith,   by yon fresh strandes,
With the frekest folk   that to thy fo longes;           boldest; belongs
Fifty thousand on feld   of fers men of armes
Within a furlong of way   fey are beleved!
We have eschewed this check   through chaunce of Our Lord           escaped; defeat
Of tho chevalrous men   that charged thy pople.
The chef chaunceller of Rome,   a cheftain full noble,
Will ask the charter of pees,   for charitee himselven;
And the Senatour Peter   to prisoner is taken.
Of Perse and Port Jaffe   paynimes ynow           pagans
Comes prikand in the press   with thy pris knightes,           spurring; choice
With povertee in thy prisoun   their paines to drie.           suffer
I beseek you, sir,   say what you likes,
Whether ye suffer them saught   or soon delivered.           grant; peace
Ye may have for the senatour   sixty horse charged           loaded
Of silver by Saterday   full sekerly payed,
And for the chef chaunceller,   the chevaler noble,
Charottes chockful   charged with gold.           Wagons; loaded
The remenaunt of the Romanes   be in arrest holden,           remnant
Til their rentes in Rome   be rightwisly knowen.           correctly
I beseek you, sir,   certify yon lordes,           make certain
Yif ye will send them over the se   or keep them yourselven.
All your seker men, for sooth,   sound are beleved,
Save Sir Ewain fitz Henry   is in the side wounded."
"Crist be thanked," quod the king,   "and his clere Moder,           immaculate
That you comforted and helped   by craft of Himselven.
Skillfully skomfiture   He skiftes as Him likes.           God skillfully handles trouble as He pleases
Is none so skathly may scape   ne skew fro His handes;           No one is so harmful that he can escape or slip away from His hands
Destainy and doughtiness   of deedes of armes,           Destiny
All is deemed and delt   at Drightenes will!           God's
I can thee thank for thy come;   it comfortes us all!           coming
Sir knight," says the conquerour,   "so me Crist help,
I give thee for thy tithandes   Toulouse the rich,           tidings
The toll and the tachementes,   tavernes and other,           appurtenances
The town and the tenementes   with towres so high,
That touches to the temporaltee,   whiles my time lastes.           All that concerns temporal life is yours while I live
But say to the senatour   I send him these wordes:
There shall no silver him save   but Ewain recover.           unless
I had lever see him sink   on the salt strandes           rather
Than the segge were seke   that is so sore wounded.           man' sick
I shall dissever that sorte,   so me Crist help,           separate; company
And set them full solitary   in sere kinges landes.           various
Shall he never sound see   his seinoures in Rome,           lords
Ne sit in the assemblee   in sight with his feres,           comrades
For it comes to no king   that conquerour is holden           is becoming; considered
To comone with his captives   for covetis of silver.           bargain; covetousness
It come never of knighthed,   know it if him like,           knighthood
To carp of cosery   when captives are taken;           business
It ought to no prisoners   to press no lordes           belongs (i.e., is proper)
Ne come in presence of princes   when parties are moved.           business is discussed
Commaund yon constable,   the castle that yemes,           governs
That he be clenlich keeped   and in close holden;           confinement
He shall have maundement to-morn   ere mid-day be rungen           command
To what march they shall merk   with maugree to lengen."           go; spite
They convey this captive   with clene men of armes           excellent
And kend him to the constable,   als the king biddes           entrust; as
And senn to Arthur they ayer   and egerly him touches           go; tell
The answer of the Emperour,   irous of deedes.           angry
Then Sir Arthur, on erthe   athelest of other           noblest
At even, at his own borde   avaunted his lordes:           praised
"Me ought to honour them in erthe   over all other thinges,
That thus in mine absence   aunters themselven!
I shall them love whiles I live,   so me Our Lord help
And give them landes full large   where them best likes;
They shall not lose on this laik,   yif me life happen,           game; is granted
That thus are lamed for my love   by these lithe strandes."           wounded; pleasant
But in the clere dawing   the dere king himselven           dawn
Commaunded Sir Cador,   with his dere knightes,
Sir Cleremus, Sir Cleremond,   with clene men of armes,
Sir Clowdmur, Sir Cleges,   to convey these lordes;
Sir Bois and Sir Berille,   with banners displayed,
Sir Bawdwin, Sir Brian,   and Sir Bedvere the rich,
Sir Raynald and Sir Richer,   Rowlaunde childer,
To ride with the Romanes   in route with their feres:           comrades
"Prikes now privily   to Paris the rich           secretly
With Peter the prisoner   and his pris knightes;
Beteche them the provost   in presence of lordes           Entrust them to
O pain and o peril   that pendes there-to           On the; appends
That they be wisely watched   and in ward holden,
Warded of warantises   with worshipful knightes;           sworn guards
Wage him wight men   and wonde for no silver;           Hire; hesitate
I have warned that wye;   beware yif him likes!"
Now bounes the Britons   als the king biddes,           prepare; as
Buskes their batailes,   their banners displayes,           Make ready their battalions, display their banners
Toward Chartres they chese,   these chevalrous knightes,           go
And in the Champain land   full fair they escheved,           succeeded
For the Emperour of might   had ordained himselven
Sir Utolf and Sir Evander,   two honourable kinges,
Erles of the Orient   with austeren knightes,           stern
Of the auntrousest men   that to his host longed           most adventurous
Sir Sextynour of Lyby   and senatours many,           Lybia
The king of Surry himself   with Sarazens ynow;           Syria
The senatour of Sutere   with summes full huge           Sutri
Was assigned to that court   by sente of his peeres,           assent
Trays toward Troys   the tresoun to work,           Goes; Troyes
To have betrapped with a trayn   our traveland knightes,           trick; travelling
That had perceived that Peter   at Paris sholde leng
In prisoun with the provost   his paines to drie.           suffer
Forthy they busked them boun   with banners displayed,           made themselves ready
In the buscaile of his way,   on blonkes full huge,           bushes
Plantes them in the path   with power arrayed
To pick up the prisoners   fro our pris knightes.
Sir Cador of Cornwall   commaundes his peeres,
Sir Clegis, Sir Cleremus,   Sir Cleremond the noble:
"Here is the Close of Clime   with cleves so high;           cliffs
Lookes the countree be clere;   the corners are large;
Discoveres now sekerly   skrogges and other,           Search; carefully shrubs
That no scathel in the skrogges   scorn us hereafter;           harmful person; shrubs
Look ye skift it so   that us no scathe limpe,           arrange it; harm befall
For no scomfiture in skulkery   is scomfit ever."           No attack from ambush is ever defeated
Now they hie to the holt,   these harageous knightes,           hasten; wood; violent
To herken of the high men   to helpen these lordes,           hear; noble
Findes them helmed hole   and horsed on steedes,           completely armed
Hovand on the high way   by the holt hemmes.           Waiting; wood's edges
With knightly countenaunce   Sir Clegis himselven
Cries to the company   and carpes these wordes:
"Is there any kidd knight,   kaiser or other,           renowned; peace officer
Will kithe for his kinges love   craftes of armes?           show
We are comen fro the king   of this kith rich           poweful country
That knowen is for conquerour,   crownd in erthe;
His rich retinues here,   all of the Round Table,
To ride with that real   in rout when him likes.
We seek jousting of war,   yif any will happen,
Of the jolliest men   ajudged by lordes;
If here be any hathel man,   erl or other,           noble
That for the Emperour love   wil aunter himselven."
And an erl then in anger   answeres him soon:
"Me angers at Arthur   and at his hathel bernes           noble
That thus in his errour   occupies these rewmes,
And outrayes the Emperour,   his erthly lord!           outrages
The array and the realtees   of the Round Table           royalty
Is with rancour rehersed   in rewmes full many,           told
Of our rentes of Rome   such revel he holdes;
He shall give resoun full rathe,   if us right happen,           quickly
That many shall repent   that in his rout rides,
For the reckless roy   so rewles himselven!"           Because; king
"A!" says Sir Clegis then,   "so me Crist help!
I know by thy carping   a counter thee seemes!           talking; accountant
But be thou auditour or erl   or Emperour thyselven,           accountant
Upon Arthures behalf   I answer thee soon,
The renk so real   that rewles us all,           man
The riotous men and the rich   of the Round Table:
He has araised his account   and redde all his rolles,           drawn up; read; records
For he will give a reckoning   that rew shall after,           rue
That all the rich shall repent   that to Rome longes           powerful (ones)
Ere the rerage be requite   of rentes that he claimes.           debt be repaid
We crave of your courtaisy   three courses of war,
And claimes of knighthood,   take keep to yourselven!
Ye do but trayn us today   with troufeland wordes;           trick; trifling
Of such traveland men   trechery me thinkes.           travelling
Send out sadly   certain knightes
Or say me sekerly sooth;   forsake yif you likes."           surrender
Then says the King of Surry,   "Als save me Our Lord,           Syria; As
Yif thou hufe all the day   thou bes not delivered!           delay; will be
But thou sekerly ensure   with certain knightes
That thy cote and thy crest   be knowen with lordes,           coat of arms
Of armes of auncestry   enterd with landes."           endowed
"Sir King," says Sir Clegis,   "full knightly thou askes;
I trow it be for cowardis   thou carpes these wordes;           believe; cowardice
Mine armes are of auncestry   envered with lordes,           acknowledged
And has in banner been borne   senn Sir Brut time;
At the citee of Troy   that time was enseged,           besieged
Oft seen in assaut   with certain kinghtes;           assault
Forthy Brut brought us   and all our bold elders           Therefore
To Bretain the Brodder   within ship-bordes."           Great Britain; aboard ships
"Sir," says Sir Sextynour,   "say what thee likes,
And we shall suffer thee,   als us best seemes;
Look thy trumpes be trussed   and troufle no lenger,           See that you pack up your trumpets and trifle no longer
For though thou tarry all the day,   thee tides no better,           betides
For there shall never Roman   that in my rout rides
Be with rebawdes rebuked,   whiles I in world regne!"           low fellows
Then Sir Clegis to the king   a little enclined,           bowed
Kaires to Sir Cador   and knightly him telles:
"We have founden in yon firth,   flourished with leves,           forest
The flowr of the fairest folk   that to thy fo longes,
Fifty thousand of folk   of fers men of armes,           fierce
That fair are fewtered on front   under yon free bowes;           prepared for battle
They are enbushed on blonkes,   with banners displayed,           in ambush
In yon beechen wood,   upon the way sides.           beech
They have the furth for-set   all of the fair water,           ford obstructed
That fayfully of force   fight us behooves,           truly
For thus us shapes today,   shortly to tell;           it befalls us
Whether we shoun or shew,   shift as thee likes."           Whether we shun (battle) or show (i.e., fight), decide as you please
"Nay," quod Cador,   "so me Crist help,
It were shame that we sholde   shoun for so little!           shun (battle)
Sir Launcelot shall never laugh,   that with the king lenges,
That I sholde let my way   for lede upon erthe;           give up; man
I shall be dede and undone   ere I here dreche           delay
For drede of any dogges-son   in yon dim shawes!"           dog's son; bushes
Sir Cador then knightly   comfortes his pople,
And with corage keen   he carpes these wordes:           heart
"Think on the valiant prince   that vesettes us ever           endows
With landes and lordshippes   where us best likes.
That has us ducherys delt   and dubbed us knightes,           dukedoms
Given us gersoms and gold   and guerdons many,           gifts; rewards
Grayhoundes and grete horse   and alkine games,           every sort of
That gaines til any gome   that under God lives;           profit any man
Think on rich renown   of the Round Table,
And let it never be reft us   for Roman in erthe;           taken from
Foyne you not faintly,   ne frithes no wepens,           Duel; spare
But look ye fight faithfully,   frekes yourselven;
I wolde be welled all quick   and quartered in sonder,           I would be boiled alive and cut in quarters
But I work my deed,   whiles I in wrath lenge."           Unless
Then this doughty duke   dubbed his knightes:
Ioneke and Askanere,   Aladuke and other,
That eieres were of Essex   and all those este marches,           heirs; eastern
Howell and Hardolf,   happy in armes,           fortunate
Sir Heryll and Sir Herygall,   these harageous knightes.           violent
Then the soveraign assigned   certain lordes,
Sir Wawayne, Sir Uryelle,   Sir Bedvere the rich,
Raynald and Richere,   Rowlandes childer:
"Takes keep on this prince   with your pris knightes,           Take care of; i.e., Peter
And yif we in the stour   withstanden the better,           battle
Standes here in this stede   and stirres no further;           place
And yif the chaunce fall   that we be over-charged,
Eschewes to some castle   and cheves yourselven,           Escape; save
Or ride to the rich king,   if you roo happen,           respite
And bid him come redyly   to rescue his bernes."
And then the Bretons brothely   enbraces their sheldes,           boldly; strap on
Braides on bacenettes   and buskes their launces;           Draw on helmets
Thus he fittes his folk   and to the feld rides,           arranges
Five hundreth on a front   fewtered at ones!           readied spears
With trumpes they trine   and trapped steedes,           trumpets; go; caparisoned
With cornettes and clariouns   and clergial notes;           skillful
Shockes in with a shake   and shuntes no longer,           sudden movement; hold back
There shawes were sheen   under the shire eves.           Where shrubs were bright under the shining eaves of the forest
And then the Romanes rout   removes a little,
Raikes with a rere-ward   those real knightes;           Goes; rearguard
So raply they ride there   that all the rout ringes           quickly
Of rives and rank steel   and rich gold mailes.           Of rivets and strong steel and rich gold chain mail
Then shot out of the shaw   sheltrones many,           bushes troops
With sharp wepens of war   shootand at ones.
The King of Lyby before   the avauntward he ledes,           Libya; vanguard
And all his lele lege-men   all on loud ascries.           loyal liegemen
Then this cruel king castes in fewter,           readies his spear
Caught him a coverd horse,   and his course holdes,           armoured
Beres to Sir Berille   and brothely him hittes,           stoutly
Through the golet and the gorger   he hurtes him even.           gullet; neckpiece
The gome and the grete horse   at the ground ligges,           man
And gretes graithely to God   and gives Him the soul.           cries
Thus is Berille the bold   brought out of life,
And bides after the burial   that him best likes.           awaits the burial
And then Sir Cador of Cornwall   is careful in herte,           sorrowful
Because of his kinsman   that thus is miscarried;
Umbeclappes the corse,   and kisses him oft,           Embraces
Gart keep him covert   with his clere knightes.           Commanded; protected
Then laughs the Lyby king,   and all on loud meles:           speaks
"Yon lord is lighted!   Me likes the better!           fallen
He shall not dere us today;   the devil have his bones!"           harm
"Yon king," says Sir Cador,   "carpes full large,
Because he killed this keen - Crist have thy soul! -           brave one
He shall have corn-bote,   so me Crist help!           penance
Ere I kaire of this coste,   we shall encounter ones:           place
So may the wind wheel turn,   I quite him ere even,           As does; repay
Soothly himselven   or some of his feres!"           companions
Then Sir Cador the keen   knightly he workes,
Cries, "A Cornwall!"   and castes in fewter,           readies his spear
Girdes streke through the stour   on a steed rich;           Strikes straight; battle
Many steren men he stirred   by strenghe of him one;           stern; struck
When his spere was sprongen,   he sped him full yerne,           broken; eagerly
Swapped out with a sword   that swiked him never,           failed
Wrought wayes full wide,   and wounded knightes,
Workes in his wayfare   full workand sides,           Makes; painful
And hewes of the hardiest   halses in sonder,           necks
That all blendes with blood   there his blonk runnes!           horse
So many bernes the bold   brought out of life,
Tittes tyrauntes down   and temes their saddles,           Knocks; empties
And turnes out of the toil   when him time thinkes!
Then the Lyby king   cries full loud           Libyan
On Sir Cador the keen   with cruel wordes:
"Thou has worship won   and wounded knightes!
Thou weenes for thy wightness   the world is thine own!           suppose; power
I shall wait at thine hand,   wye, by my trewth;           man; word
I have warned thee well,   beware yif thee likes!"
With cornus and clariouns   these new-made knightes           horns
Lithes unto the cry   and castes in fewter,           Listen; ready their spears
Ferkes in on a front   on feraunt steedes,           Ride on iron-grey steeds at the front rank (of the Romans)
Felled at the first come   fifty at ones;
Shot through the sheltrons   and shivered launces,           troops; split
Laid down in the lump   lordly bernes.           heap
And thus nobly our new men   notes their strenghes!           use
But new note is anon   that noyes me sore:           business; annoys
The King of Lyby has laght   a steed that him liked,           seized
And comes in lordly   in liones of silver,           with heraldic lions
Umbelappes the lump   and lettes in sonder;           Surrounds; group; drives
Many lede with his launce   the life has he reved!           taken
Thus he chases the childer   of the kinges chamber,
And killes in the champaines   chevalrous knightes;           open fields
With a chasing spere   he choppes down many!           hunting spear
There was Sir Aladuke slain   and Achinour wounded,
Sir Origge and Sir Ermyngall   hewen all to peces!           pieces
And there was Lewlin laght   and Lewlins brother           taken
With lordes of Lyby   and led to their strenghes;           stronghold
Ne had Sir Clegis comen   and Clement the noble,
Our new men had gone to nought   and many mo other.           many others
Then Sir Cador the keen   castes in fewter           readies his spear
A cruel launce and a keen   and to the king rides,
Hittes him high on the helm   with his hard wepen,
That all the hot blood of him   to his hand runnes!
The hethen harageous king   upon the hethe ligges,           heathen violent; heath
And of his hertly hurt   heled he never.           mortal; healed
Then Sir Cador the keen   cries full loud:
"Thou has corn-bote, sir king,   there God give thee sorrow;           penance
Thou killed my cosin;   my care is the less!
Kele thee now in the clay   and comfort thyselven;           Cool yourself
Thou scorned us long ere,   with thy scornful wordes,
And now thou has cheved so,   it is thine own scathe;           fared; harm
Hold at thou hent has;   it harmes but little,           Keep what you have taken; it does little harm
For hething is home-hold,   use it who-so will!"           For scorn is internal, use it who will
The King of Surry then   is sorrowful in herte,           Syria
For sake of his soveraign   that thus was surprised;           taken
Sembled his Sarazens   and senatours many;
Unsaughtly they set then   upon our sere knightes.           Hostilely; various
Sir Cador of Cornwall   he counters them soon           encounters
With his kidd company   clenlich arrayed;           famous; splendidly
In the front of the firth,   as the way forthes,           forest; goes forth
Fifty thousand of folk   was felled at ones.
There was at the assemblee   certain knightes
Sore wounded soon   upon sere halves.           every side
The sekerest Sarazenes   that to that sorte longed           most dependable; company
Behind the saddles were set   six foot large;           i.e., were six foot tall from the waist up
They sheerd in the sheltron   shelded knightes;           cut down; troop shielded
Shalkes they shot through   shrinkand mailes;           Men; plated
Through brenyes browden   brestes they thirled;           armour braided; pierced
Bracers burnisht   bristes in sonder;           Arm guards; burst
Blasons bloody   and blonkes they hewen,           Bloody shields
With brandes of brown steel,   brankand steedes!           shining; prancing
The Bretons brothely   brittenes so many           quickly destroy
The bente and the brode feld   all on blood runnes!           earth
By then Sir Kayous the keen   a capitain has wonnen;           captured
Sir Clegis clinges in   and clekes another;           rushes; clutches
The Capitain of Cordewa,   under the king selven,           Cordova
That was key of the kith   of all that coste rich           country
Utolf and Evander   Ioneke had nommen           captured
With the Erl of Afrike   and other grete lordes.           Africa
The King of Surry the keen   to Sir Cador is yelden,           surrendered
The Seneschal of Sutere   to Sagramour himselven.           Sutri
When the chevalry saw   their cheftaines were nomen,           taken
To a chef forest   they chosen their wayes,           go
And feeled them so faint   they fell in the greves,           groves
In the feren of the firth   for ferd of our pople.           ferns; forest; fear
There might men see the rich   ride in the shawes           shrub
To rip up the Romanes   rudlich wounded,           rudely
Shoutes after men   harageous knightes,           violent
By hundrethes they hewed down   by the holt eves!           edge of the wood
Thus our chevalrous men   chases the pople;
To a castel they escheved   the few that eschaped.           achieved (i.e., reached); escaped
Then relies the renkes   of the Round Table           rally
For to riot the wood   there the duke restes;           ride through
Ransackes the rindes all,   raght up their feres,           woods; took; companions
That in the fighting before   fey were beleved.           left
Sir Cador gart charre them   and cover them fair,           Sir Cador commanded that they be put in wagons and covered with fair cloths
Carried them to the king   with his best knightes,
And passes unto Paris   with prisoners himselven,
Betook them the provost,   princes and other,           Entrusted them to
Tas a sope in the towr   and tarries no longer           Takes; meal
But turnes tite to the king   and him with tonge telles:           quickly; tongue
"Sir," says Sir Cador,   "a case is befallen;
We have countered today   in yon coste rich           encountered; coast
With kinges and kaiseres   cruel and noble,
And knightes and keen men   clenlich arrayed!
They had at yon forest   for-set us the wayes,           blockaded
At the furth in the firth   with fers men of armes;           ford; forest
There fought we in faith   and foined with speres           duelled
On feld with thy fomen   and felled them on live;           alive (i.e., killed them)
The King of Lyby is laid   and in the feld leved,           laid low
And many of his lege-men   that yore to him longed;           formerly
Other lordes are laght   of uncouthe ledes;           taken; foreign countries
We have led them at lenge,   to live whiles thee likes.           to remain here
Sir Utolf and Sir Evander,   these honourable knightes,
By an aunter of armes   Ioneke has nomen,           taken
With erles of Orient   and austeren knightes,
Of auncestry the best men   that to the host longed;
The Senatour Carous   is caught with a knight,
The Capitain of Cornette   that cruel is holden,           Corneto
The Seneschal of Sutere,   unsaught with these other,           Sutri; distressed
The King of Surry himselven   and Sarazenes ynow.
But fey of ours in the feld   are fourteen knightes.
I will not feyne ne forbere   but faithfully tellen:           hold back; delay
Sir Berille is one,   a bannerette noble,
Was killed at the first come   with a king rich;
Sir Aladuke of Towell   with his tender knightes,
Among the Turkes was tint   and in time founden;           lost; found (dead)
Good Sir Mawrelle of Mawnces   and Mawrene his brother,
Sir Meneduke of Mentoche   with marvelous knightes."
Then the worthy king writhes   and weeped with his eyen,
Carpes to his cosin   Sir Cador these wordes:
"Sir Cador, thy corage   confoundes us all!           courage
Cowardly thou castes out   all my best knightes!
To put men in peril,   it is no pris holden,           excellence
But the parties were purveyed   and power arrayed;           prepared
When thou were stedde on a strenghe   thou sholde have with-stonden,           When you were placed in a stronghole, you should have endured
But yif ye wolde all my steren   stroy for the nones!"           strong men destroy
"Sir," says Sir Cador,   "ye know well yourselven;
Ye are king in this kith;   carp what you likes!
Shall never berne upbraid me   that to thy borde longes,           table
That I sholde blinn for their boste   thy bidding to work!           cease; command
When any stertes to stale,   stuff them the better,           sets out; company; supply
Or they will be stonayed and stroyed   in yon strait landes.           astonished; destroyed
I did my deligence today - I do me on lordes -           I did my duty today - I put myself at the judgement of lords
And in daunger of dede   for diverse knightes,           death
I have no grace to thy gree   but such grete wordes;           reward
Yif I heven my herte,   my hap is no better."           speak my mind; fortune
Though Sir Arthur was angered,   he answers fair:
"Thou has doughtily done,   Sir Duke, with thy handes,
And has done thy dever   with my dere knightes;           duty
Forthy thou art deemed   with dukes and erles
For one of the doughtiest   that dubbed was ever!
There is none ischew of us   on this erthe sprongen;           issue (child); sprung
Thou art apparent to be eier,   or one of thy childer;           heir
Thou art my sister son;   forsake shall I never!"           sister's
Then gart he in his owen tent   a table be set,           commanded; own
And tryed in with trumpes   traveled bernes,           invited; trumpets exhausted
Served them solemnly   with selcouthe metes,           rare foods
Swithe seemly in sight   with silveren dishes.           Very
When the senatours herde say   that it so happened,           heard
They said to the Emperour:   "Thy segges are surprised!           warriors; taken
Sir Arthur, thine enmy,   has outrayed thy lordes           outraged
That rode for the rescue   of yon rich knightes!
Thou dos but tinnes thy time   and tourmentes thy pople;           do; lose; torment
Thou art betrayed of thy men   that most thou on traisted.           by; trusted
That shall turn thee to teen   and torfer forever!"           pain; sorrow
Then the Emperour irous was,   angerd at his herte           irate
For our valiant bernes   such prowesh had wonnen.           prowess
With king and with kaiser   to counsel they wend,
Soveraignes of Sarazens   and senatours many.
Thus he sembles full soon   certain lordes,
And in the assemblee then   he says them these wordes:           assembly
"My herte soothly is set,   assent if you likes,
To seek into Sessoine   with my seker knightes,           Soissons
To fight with my fomen,   if fortune me happen,
Yif I may find the freke   within the four halves;           sides
Or enter into Auguste   aunters to seek,           Autun (French province)
And bide with my bold men   within the burg rich,
Rest us and revel   and riot ourselven,
Lende there in delite   in lordshippes ynow,           Remain; delight
To Sir Leo be comen   with all his lele knightes,           Until; loyal
With lordes of Lumbardy   to let him the wayes."           hinder
But our wise king is wary   to waiten his renkes,          look out for
And wisely by the woodes   voides his host;           withdraws
Gart felshen his fires   flamand full high,                     Commands that his fires be fed so that they flame very high
Trussen full traistely   and treunt there-after.           And (commands them) to pack up securely and march away thereafter
Sithen into Sessoine   he sought at the gainest,           Soissons; went; quickest
And at the sours of the sun   disseveres his knightes,           rising; separates
For-set them the citee   upon sere halves,           Blockaded; all sides
Sodenly on eche halfe,   with seven grete stales,           Suddenly; each side; troops
Only in the vale   a vaweward enbushes.           vanguard lies in ambush
Sir Valiant of Wales   with valiant knightes
Before the kinges visage   made such avowes
To vanquish by victory   the Viscount of Rome;
Forthy the king charges him,   what chaunce so befall,           appoints
Cheftain of the check   with chevalrous knightes,           attack
And sithen meles with mouth   that he most traistes;           to those that; trusts
Demenes the middilward   menskfully himselven,           Leads; middle guard
Fittes his footmen   als him fair thinkes;           Arranges
On front in the fore-breste   the flowr of his knightes;           first rank
His archers on either half   he ordained there-after           side
To shake in a sheltron   to shoot when them likes;          
He arrayed in the rereward   full real knightes
With renkes renowned   of the Round Table,
Sir Raynald, Sir Richere   that rade was never,           fearful
The rich Duke of Rouen   with riders ynow;
Sir Kayous, Sir Clegis,   and clene men of armes,           Sir Kayous, Sir Clegis, and good men of arms
The king castes to keep   by tho clere strandes;           The king decides should keep watch by those shining strands
Sir Lot and Sir Launcelot,   these lordly knightes
Shall lenge on his left hand   with legiones ynow,
To move in the morn-while,   if the mist happen;           morning
Sir Cador of Cornwall,   and his keen knightes,
To keep at the karfuke,   to close in thir other;           watch; crossroads; these
He plantes in such places   princes and erles
That no power sholde pass   by no privee wayes.           secret
But the Emperour anon   with honourable knightes
And erles enters the vale,   aunters to seek,
And findes Sir Arthur   with hostes arrayed,
And at his in-come,   to eeken his sorrow,           entry; add to
Our burlich bold king   upon the bente hoves,           strong; plain rides
With his batail on-brode   and banners displayed.           battalions spread out
He had the citee for-set   upon sere halves,           besieged; many sides
Both the cleves and the cliffes   with clene men of armes,           gullies
The moss and the morass   with mountes so high           bogs
With grete multitude of men   to mar him in the wayes.           harm
When Sir Lucius sees,   he says to his lordes:
"This traitour has treunt   this tresoun to work!           marched here; treason
He has the citee for-set   upon sere halves,           blockaded
All the cleves and the cliffes   with clene men of armes!           gullies
Here is no way, iwis,   ne no wit else,           advice
But fight with our fomen,   for flee may we never!"
Then this rich man rathe   arrayes his bernes,           swiftly
Rewled his Romans   and real knightes;
Buskes in the avauntward   the Viscount of Rome;           vanguard
Fro Viterbo to Venice   these valiant knightes
Dresses up dredfully   the dragon of gold,           Raise
With egles all over   enamelled of sable;           eagles; adorned
Drawen dreghly the wine   and drinken there-after,           solemnly
Dukes and douspeeres,   dubbed knightes;
For dauncesing of Dutch-men   and dinning of pipes,           Germans; sounding
All dinned for din   that in the dale hoved.           resounded; noise; stood
And then Sir Lucius on loud   said lordlich wordes:
"Think on the much renown   of your rich faders,
And the riotours of Rome   that regned with lordes,           ravagers
And the renkes over-ran,   all that regned in erthe,
Ecroched all Cristendom   by craftes of armes;           Invaded
In everich a viage   the victory was holden           each expedition
Inset all the Sarazenes   within seven winter,           Overcame
The part from Port Jaffe   to Paradise gates!           Jaffa
Though a rewm be rebel,   we reck it but little;           reckon
It is resoun and right   the renk be restrained!
Do dress we therefore,   and bide we no longer,           Let us prepare ourselves
For dredles, withouten doubt,   the day shall be oures!"           surelyEmbed