1 ContributorCry No More LyricsCry no more.  (No more, no more.)
Shoo doo doo doo doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo, doo
Doo, doo, doo
Mmmm, eh
You fell so deep in love
'Twas like a fairy tale that somehow came true
But then it fell apart, became a nightmare
What happened to the love?
Now that it's over
You've been crying all night long, yeah
Aw, yes, baby
Thinking 'bout those sweet memories
Wondering what you've done wrong
Eh, eh, eh, baby
We have to make it right
(Heartaches) Just end those heartaches you had
You gave your very best
You don't have to cry no more.  (No more.)
I'm what you're looking for.  (Mmmm.)
No more lonely nights
Wipe the tears from your eyes
You don't have to cry no more
I'll never leave you lonely
You might also likeIf you give me the chance
I'll wipe your tears away, put a smile upon your face
I'll be there to kiss you in the moo-oo-oo-oo-oonlight
Be the morning sun that greets you
Be the whisper that says good night
'Cause life's not over, this is just the beginning
Yeah, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh.  Oooh, yeah
Put your hand in my hand
I'll show you love, baby.  Yes I will, girl
(We have to make it right.) I'll never leave
(Heartaches you) Just end those heartaches you had
You gave your very best
You don't have to cry no more.  (No more.)
I'm what you're looking for.  (Trust me, baby.)
No more lonely nights.  (Oooh, yeah.)
Wipe the tears from your eyes
You don't have to cry no more.  (Shoo doo doo doo doo doo doo oooh.)
I'll never leave you lonely.  (Oooh!)
I'll hold you in the middle of the night.  (Hey baby,)
Everything is gonna be alright, sweet baby.  (come closer to D'Extra, 'cause you don't have to cry no more.)
Cry no more. (No more.)
I'm what you're looking for.  (All those bad times are gone forever, little girl.)
I'll be there for you
(That's right, 'cause I'm here.) I'm the one that you've been looking for
(I'll hold you all night long, wipe all those tears away)
You don't have to cry no more
Cry no more.  (and I'll be here for you, girl.  I promise, forever.)
(Heh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh, eh.) I'll never leave you lonely
Cry no more.  (No more, no more.)
I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I-I'll treat you right, girl
(Cry no more.) I'll make love to you all night long
I wanna kiss you from your head right down
(Cry no more, no more, no more.) from your head to your toes
Whoo!
(Cry no more.) I can treat you like you need to be treated, baby
Yeah, yeah, hey, hey, eh, eh, eh, ehEmbed