1 ContributorRain Dance Lyrics
Yeah, uh, guess who?
Raleigh
Raleigh, North Carolina
North Cack shit
And everybody know this just some practice
Mm (The 00SIXTAPE)
This Eric Armitage
I'm just talkin'
Then outta nowhere, I'm just

Bae is thick, but the plot thickens
I’m a classic writer like Charles Dicken
Do I - do I have your attention?
I’m talk to ‘em like a polit-, haha

I never bought a pair of J's
I just bumped a lil’ Jay-Z
You ain’t hear what I say?
Well, this is where we part ways, then
While you suckin’ up, I just be suckin’ titties
I’m a hustler, baby, and you wasn’t busy
If you motherfuckers want it, come and get me
Runnin’ circles round ‘em got you fuckers dizzy, huh
No cap - all ya’ll be ball caps
Yeah, yeah, that means you all cap
Summertime’s over, boy, fall back
They stop, look, and watch cuz I’m -
Turnin’ corners quick, goin’ for the win
Like the tortoise is, you fast forward it
They rewind my track, talk behind my back
But I’m still the one that they smile at
Holy Thursday, I was up inside the churches
All I ever tried to do was drop bible verses
Never gave a single fuck, I’ma die a virgin
Man, you know I got your back, I’m a spinal surgeon
I’m a walkin’ talkin’ rhyme scheme, I’m not a person
All you beta males, look, this the final version
This is Tyler Durden, ain’t it? Amen
Ay, man, this type of shit that leave brain dead
Guess again, draw in figures like I’m playin’ hangman
Tryna get into the game, but you don’t got a gameplan
Ay, man, I don’t know if you should do that thang, man
Oh, Lawd, you gettin’ cropped, I’ma do my rain dance on 'em
You might also like
Whoa
Rain Dance
Everybody just lookin' around, the be like
"What in the motherfuck is this shit?"
Well...

I rain dance on 'em like fla-da-da
I rain dance on 'em like fla-da-da
I rain dance on 'em like fla-da-da
I rain dance on 'em like fla-da-da
I rain dance on 'em like fla-da-da
I rain dance on 'em like fla-da-da
I rain dance on 'em like fla-da-da
I rain dance on 'em like fla-da-da

700 miles and I’m still runnin’
This a marathon, boy - keep it comin’
Never gave up on this shit, it ain’t nothin’
It ain’t even an option when you love it
Do you love something as much as I love this?
Do you have someone you can be honest with?
If you don’t, go and find it, please
Or spend more time with me
700 miles and I’m still runnin’
This a marathon, boy - keep it comin’
Never gave up on this shit, it ain’t nothin’
It ain’t even an option when you love it
Do you love something as much as I love this?
Do you have someone you can be honest with?
If you don’t, go and find it, please
Or spend more time with meEmbed