1 ContributorBurn Burn Burn Lyrics
Everybody who's with me, one time
Pull out your lighters and hold them to the sky
Put them up now. Now. Now
Said: "Put them up now. Now. Now." Now
Everybody who's with me, one time
Pull out your lighters and hold them to the sky
Put them up now. Now. Now
Said: "Put them up now. Now."

The doctor cut the umbilical cord like sparking a fuse. The littlest ball
Of flame burst to life to start to consume. Cells? She's killing them off
But aren't we all? Momma took her home to the apartment
To hold her little firebrand, with tired hands up, to her heart. She's guarded
Regardless, she never imagined that when she named her "Ash"
It'd be the first crack in a breaking glass, disastrous angel crash
She had flaming wings and so the fall made her
Leave feather streaks singing the wallpaper. Now
Momma's chasing her; she's flying around
One-of-a-kind little inferno, and it tires her out
Ash's fingers more like kindling now and pyres abound
Leaving Momma with a fire to douse. But she never can
She wants a better man, but that's nothing new
The dudes are coming through; they always think they're fucking smooth
They're all pretenders, all ballers, all swag
And little Ash soaks it up like a Molotov rag. Now...
You might also like
I came here
To blaze a trail
But I think I've
Just been raising hell
Said: "I came here
To blaze a trail
But I think I've
Just been raising hell."

Ash is thirteen, hearing no more lies
Sees the world filling with doubt, burning blowtorch eyes
A cold war guise so Momma sees the frozen tundra, Russia
Instead of the scorched earth that gets exposed from under cover
With every step, she's melting the snow. She's very distressed that she's seeing them
Selling their soul for the celery, checks. She's telling them, "No." And you know that she's very adept
You know. She lights a cigarette up just to feel the choke;
She's been breathing fire all her life, now she inhales the smoke
Her adolescence turns into an exercise in innovation
Thinning patience, minutes wasted waiting for the immolation
Momma's so angry that that ain't the way that a lady acts
But Ash's ego is in flames and she's a pyromaniac
The fishing hook is caught in her lip. She never could stop if she wanted to quit
And she don't. She wanted to sit. She wanted the world to be more than the boredom it is
So what? So now she clings to the cigarettes as a lifeline
Suffering through the hours every day 'til it's ignite time
Now...

Now she's sure grown, moved out on her own
Diner waitress serves folks eggs and burnt toast
Standing on the curb, smokes, waiting for the end of her shift
So she could hit the bar and take a second to sit, pretending to quit
But she needs every cent of the check. The studio's cheap, but never for free
She's living ahead of her means and daily is having more trouble in getting to sleep
She drops a couple hundred on the tats for hand design
Just to make her feel the heat again; the pen's a branding iron
She arrives home daily at one to drop to sleep
Steaming, she pulls the battery out of the fire alarm to stop the beep
Her fuse is low, but she don't know if she's a massive bomb
Or if she'll just defuse like all of the candle wax is gone
There's no moral here to wrap it up about how she'll never get
Past the hump until she's had enough, the system is bad, corrupt
Or once the match is struck how it could pry her world apart
It's just gorgeous to watch her burn; she's a firework of art. Now...


Now when I say "smoking", you say "kills"
Smoking! (Kills!)
Smoking! (Kills!)
Now when I say "smoking", you say "kills"
Smoking! (Kills!)
Smoking! (Kills!)
Now when I say "quit", you say "quit"
Quit! (Quit!)
Quit! (Quit!)
Now when I say "quit", you say "quit"
Quit! (Quit!)
Quit! (Quit!)
YeahEmbed