6 ContributorsKeith B-Real III (Interlude) Lyrics
'Cuse me, I know him, I know him
Hey, Keith, Keith—
Um, 'cuse me, Will, man—
Look, yo, Charlie, Charlie, get this boy up out of here!
I—I—I—I know, I know, I know, I know, I know, Charlie, hold up
Just give me one second, man, look I just—Will
Keith, what man, what?
When I look back at this I realize that I came at you sideways and I apologize—
You damn right you came at me sideways—
Right, right
Man, I'm sayin', I'm having a party, man, my album release, man, you just—
It's a nice party, I like the ice, the slaves, it's nice, man
You just, you disrespectin' my whole thing, man
I didn't mean to, man, it's just that it's—I have one thing I just wanna ask you before I get out of here, look
Alright, what—what—what is it, Keith?
I'm doin' somethin', man, that's takin' me to the next
To the—to the next century
It's a barbershop
Mm-hmm
Okay? Slash studio, huh, feel it?
Yeah
See now—now what it is now wait, wait, wait, hold yourself
What it is, is that while—while you're gettin' your—your—your hair cut, you're gettin' your demo cut
While they pushin' up the faders, you're gettin' a fade
That's—
'Cause, see?
Yeah, yeah, that's hot—
Yeah, you feel it?
That's hot, I could feel that
You feel it? You feel it? Yeah
That's hot, that's hot, that's hot
I, all—all I need is, you know all I need is, you know, the up front money to get the clippers and the oil
Mm-hmm
'Cause Rudy and my other boy he got the reels and everything—
Right
—We goin' to DAT, everything DAT, DAT, DAT
Uh, yeah, uh, you know what—
We gon' DAT it up
You know what? I can, I can feel that—
Right
—I can feel that idea, Keith
Ye—and—and we'll give you money on the back end and I'll cut you in—
Right
—On the motivational tapes and everything, you know you'll have your whole, you know your whole syndicate
Ye—yeah, yeah
Your whole thing will be
'Ight you know what? You know, that's—that's hot I can feel that id—
Right, right
—Listen you know what, um
Mm-hmm
Why don't you write—write your number down—
Writw
—Write your down for me, you know, and I—I'ma call you
Let me, let me write it, let me write, you know what, about the number
Man, uh, um, phone's off right now, uh
Somebody cloned my home number, man, yeah, yeah
An—an—
Damn
—And the, and the bill done voluptuated so
Uh, you know, uh, that won't be back on until the latter part of the year but you know
I'ma give you the future number
What they, what they called and said that that they was gon' give me a future number—
'Ight
—That you know, so that my num—it's clone it's—it's—it's clone-free
I'ma call you—
Alright, hit Keith
—I'ma call you, Keith
Hit Keith
Keith, that's right, ay, you keep it real, haha
That's—that's, that's—that's my line, br—
Uh, yeah, okay, yeah alright
Alright, you be cool, man
Charlie, alright, man you—take it easy, man
This is Keith B-Real signin' off!
Man that, boy, that man Will Smith, Big Willie Style, baby!
Yeah! Big Willie! I feel you!
HahahaSee Will Smith LiveGet tickets as low as $78Embed