20 ContributorsThe Big Picture Lyrics
Seems like it, right? Don't you think?
You going in that side?
You wanna drive?
No, you can drive
It's kind of cold in here
Go left here, then up here, now take a right
We'll go up to...
Take a right here, can you make a right here? Yeah
And then maybe left, 27...
Oh, he told you where it was?
No, he didn't
You're just guessing. ESP?
Psychic...
...all my stuff is still there
Whoa, Jesus, Jesus...
That was weird... got scared so I pumped the brakes, 'cause I thought we could be sliding 'cause I'm used to driving in the snow
Shh, wait a minute, I like this song...

The picture's far too big to look at, kid
Your eyes won't open wide enough
And you're constantly surrounded
By the swirling stream of what is and what was
Well, we all made our predictions, but
The truth still isn't out
But if you wanna see the future
Go and stare into a cloud
See Bright Eyes LiveGet tickets as low as $38You might also like
And keep trying to find your way out
Of that maze of memories
It all sorta looks familiar
Until you get up close, and then it's different clearly
But each time you turn a corner, you're
You're right back where you were
And your only hope is that forgetting might
Make a door appear

Well is it your fear of being buried
That makes you so afraid to speak?
An avalanche of opinions
Like the one that fell that I'm now underneath
It was my voice that moved the first rock
And I would do it all again
So I mean, it's cool if you keep quiet, but
I like singing

So I'll be holding my note
And stomping and strumming and feeling so very lucky
And there is nothing I know
Except this lifetime's one moment and wishing will just leave you empty
So you can try and live in darkness
But you will never shake the light
No, it will greet you every morning
And it will make you more aware with its absence at night
When you're wrapped up in your blankets, baby
That comfortable cocoon
But I've seen the day of your awakening, boy
And it's coming soon

So go ahead and loose yourself in liquor
And you can praise the clouded mind
But it isn't what you're thinking, no
It's the course of history, your position in line
You're just a piece of the puzzle, so
I think you'd better find your place
And don't go blaming your knowledge
On some fruit you ate

'Cause there's been a great deal of discussion, yes
About the properties of man
Animal or angel
You were carved from bone, but your heart is just sand
And the wind is gonna scatter it
And cover everything with love
So if it makes you happy, then keep kneeling, mama
But I'm standing up
Because this veil, it has been lifted, yes
My eyes are wet with clarity
I've been a witness to such wonders
Oh, I have searched for them all across this country
But I think I'll be returning now
To the town where I was born
And I understand you must keep moving, friend
But I'm headed home

Yeah, I'm gonna follow the road
And let the scenery sweeping by easily enter my body
And I will send you all this message in code
Underground over mountains through forests and deserts and cities

All across electric wire, it's a baited line
Yeah, the hook's in deep, boys, there's no more time
So you can struggle in the water, be too stubborn to die
Or you can just let go and be lifted to the sky3Embed