3 ContributorsMy Fucked Up Mind Lyrics
Okay, Wyatt
You've been in the studio for like eight hours and you haven't done shit
Come on, you can think of something
Nah, fuck this
Imma just zone out real quick
I wonder what Drake's doing right now
Maybe he's making an album
Or maybe he's about to start hitting Rihanna
When she's taking her break in the sauna
'Cause she's refusing to collab again after all those other songs were so awful
Speaking of romance, I wonder if that German chick I met yesterday wants to bang
Hopefully, 'cause man, I haven't had sex since I fucked that black teddy bear in the back of my dad's black Sedan
But I swear this girl's in the top three Germans I'd make love to if I had the chance
Right under Adolf Hitler, damn, he's such a handsome man, I could just imagine that
Sticking my throbbing cock in-
(Okay, that's fucked up even for me, oh god...)
Man I hate all these groupies, like, I only let Drake and Fetty Wap inside my plastic ass
Unless you're really big, then I might ride you like a taxi cab
Man, fuck a bitch who ask like that
Unless I see you on the street, I might just tie them up and smother them with their own maxi pad
Why am I so motherfucking angry?
Probably the same reason I say everything I'm thinking
Who fucking knows
But ever since a baby, when I see people that annoy me
I have the sudden urge to squash them like a pancake and shove them in the pantry
Man, this world will never understand me
Like Eminem and Shady
But maybe with a little bit less money
But I know once I'm done with this game, I'll be driving a Mercedes
And I'll even buy eleven chimpanzees
So I can tear their fucking heads off and drink their blood whenever I get thirsty
Man, if I don't get to work on this song soon, it'll be like twenty days before it gets made
So imma just start with something simple like the hook, alright?
How about it goes a little something like...
You might also like
My fucked up, fucked up mind is so crazy
And I don't think, don't think no one can save me
Oh, I'm, oh, I'm schizophrenic, paranoid
And I don't think, don't think no one can save me
So I, so I urge you to stay back because
My fucked up, fucked up mind is so crazy

Okay, time for the first verse (Ugh)
Writing makes me wanna go berserk
So imma... Wait, who's that guy in the window?
Oh whatever, just ignore him, keep on writing shit bro
Wait, fuck, he's climbing in though
And what's he pulling out of his pocket?
Is that a knife with him?
Oh, fuck
I think it's time to split
Don't let him catch you, just head through the back door
(Door opens and closes)
Now just run 'til you lose him, man
You're fine as long as he isn't that fast
I can't believe this is happening
I'm already getting exhausted
Wait, why is there a dog with a gas mask sticking his dick in a man dressed as Batman?
Huh... that doesn't look half bad
Shit, don't get distracted
You're being chased by a psychopath and you're stopping to watch two bitches have sex?
Cut the fucking crap, man
Or you'll be deader than an elegant feminist having sex with a celibate elephant
Hey, look, it's Eminem
Marshall! Marshall!
Hey, Marshall, over here!
Hey, please
I really need you to save me
See, there's this guy after me, and I swear he's fucking crazy
He has a knife and I think he's either gonna kill or rape me
So I was thinking maybe you could just tell him to stop
Or beat the shit out of him
Whichever you find more easy
So, what do you say, G?
(Unholy sound effect from hell)
Geez, nevermind then, bitch
Damn, I knew Marshall was edgy
But I never knew he was a giant dick
The evil man's right behind me now
Jesus Christ, this fucking guy is quick
How did I ever get in this treacherous endeavor?
Man, I swear there best be a heaven
'Cause let's face it, I can't survive this shit
'Cause unlike Logic, I don't do well under pressure
I'm just a privileged white kid
That's biggest crime is stealing pencils up in science class
You know what? Quit fucking whining, bitch
Think of 2Pac, you've always admired him
Maybe you should act like him and at least try to live
Now go around this bend
Hey, look, there's a garbage bin
Quick, while he can't see you, go hide in this
(Garbage bin opens and closes)
Okay, now all you have to do is wait for him to pass
And you'll be just fine
Don't be scared, no need to cry
'Cause if he hears you sobbing, then he'll probably end your whole freaking life
Man, this is one of the only people in the world that I truly despise
In fact, if I survive
Maybe I'll find out where this guy lives
And show up to his bedroom holding a knife
Yeah, wouldn't that hoe be surprised
Nah, who am I kidding
If I live through this shit, I wouldn't ever go near this guy
Oh, tight spaces are one of my biggest phobias
Why don't I just get out of here?
I mean, what are the chances that he hasn't passed me yet?
(Garbage bin opens)
Are you fucking kidding me?
He just turned around the corner exactly when I happened to leave the hiding spot
Great, he sees me, fuck this cunt
Now I really gotta run
And since when was it nighttime?
My watch says it's 3 PM, what's up?
Wait, was that Biggie, Pac, and Nas that just drove by in a Lamborghini?
What the fuck, this is getting creepy
And why is this fucking guy still chasing me?
Maybe he just really needs a cock to suck
And I'm just an easy target
Like a fag that I won't leave the closet
Man, I swear to god, I've nearly lost it
Like the Joker in DC comics
He gives me the fucking heebie-jeebies
I'm a wee bit nauseous from the process of constantly running
Pace yourself, easy does it
'Cause if you pass out, there's no way you're waking up from it
Man, I've had enough of this
I'm tired and I'm lacking oxygen
Maybe I should just end it right now and in a manic suffering
Or maybe I should stop fucking talking to myself
Nah, there's too many thoughts, I just can't abolish them
Yeah, I'm positive that I can't go on like this
Calm down, man, you've got this, yeah
Goddamn, this guy pisses me off
I'm almost even more mad than Alec Baldwin gets
If I wasn't such a damn pussy, I would tell this guy "suck my fucking anaconda bitch"
But I am
And with all the random thoughts I've been speaking
I'm kinda surprised this guy hasn't caught up yet
Fuck it, at this point, I'll take any break that I can get
Wait a second, I think I see a dark forest
Maybe I can lose him in there
Even though it looks like fucking Lucifer's lair
Just calm down, think happy thoughts
Don't get all fucking cuckoo
Soon you'll be back in your awesome room just watching YouTube
Making music and praying that The Needle Drop reviews you
Oh my god, I think I lost him
I think he's gone
(Chimpanzee noises)
Wait
What's that noise?
It's coming from all around me
What the fuck, are those chimpanzees with no heads?
Jesus Christ, they're surrounding me
Man, I'm so dead
No, please!
No, p-p-please!
Don't... don't!
AAHHH! AAAAAHHHHHHHH!!!
(Otherworldly demonic screams)
(Alarm clock)
Oh my god...
It was just a dream...
What the fuck was that...
Man, something's wrong in my head...
I guess...

My fucked up, fucked up mind is so crazy
And I don't think, don't think no one can save me
Oh, I'm, oh, I'm schizophrenic, paranoid
And I don't think, don't think no one can save me
So I, so I urge you to stay back because
My fucked up, fucked up mind is so crazyEmbed