1 ContributorBB Living LyricsCame up off the runtzy cake remember selling docey do, gas on me loud just like a Scat Pack on an open road
She talking bout Ruth Chris like Wendy’s ain’t got no 4 for 4’s, nigga just like Michael Myers all these niggas chasing hoes!
See me and him different, like a dice game boy I break the hoe
She gone let me fuck for free these niggas tryna pay the hoe
Sip of that Bobby, last July I was breaking bows. How you want more opps than money? No motion you crazy
And I can’t pull over for nobody on god I just can not, nigga talm bout them switches I got a hemi on that Glock. It go, phew Get Down! It’s a difference on that shot
So think twice about you playing before you come up on that block
IPD watching my street I think they tryna stop my bread, Ian tripping so just pull up right beside the old Fred’s
I got a hitta with no name he black and tall like Takco Fall, I mix Toosie with the Prada she like my ugly ass got off. —? Man that shit be paid for in cash dummy, nigga don’t even know my real name and get on your ass dummy
Beef with who? It ain’t bout shit at all if it ain’t bout the money, boy i come through serving car to car look like I work at Sonic
Yea excuse me sir? Let me get those Dior’s in a 46
This bitch wanna see me but i’m laid up with another bitch
Whole paint of wock, get a sprite and cup from Double Quick. See this bitch confused cause she ain’t never heard of Double Quick
Want me to pay her for the pussy, she want me to beg and plead before I beg a hoe to fuck I swear God i’ll beat my meat, she want back shots she short as hell this hoe like 5’3, and she suck my dick so long I done forgot she got knees. Bankrolls and Bows, exotic hoes and designer cloths used to be It’s Fashion now I fuck off in Designer Stores, you know ian no boxer but Li Kelo got a couple Bows, y’all know I lied boy I still be fucking ugly hoes. Bankrolls and Bows, exotic hoes and designer cloths used to be It’s Fashion now I fuck off in Designer Stores
Yea Yea, I keep a couple bows
Y’all know I lied you know Li Kelo fucking ugly hoes
And ian stutting them niggas, boy i’m clutching while they mugging me
Pillow talking to these hoes the only way y’all pushing P
Bitch i’m different I went pound for pound while they went PPP
—-? I’m like a tampon, boy i’m tryna get inside the bitch, if she fat as hell I take my time and get behind the bitch
Niggas be stepping quiet as hell, they get hit up and hide the shit
Put a dildo on a mongoose all these niggas riding dick
Yea, they can say whatever bout the kid just know my money long, got on your robe playing your game with your bitch bonnet on
Gripping on her neck while i’m pulling out her feed-ins
Ion give no fuck baby boy Li Kelo need his
You might also like(And i’m that ratchet ass li nigga from the Plaza, I can careless bout these dog ass hoes cause i done had em. I went pound for pound she done bought him a slow ass camaro. Mixing green with the yellow Aaron Rodgers on the passenger) yea do your dance wodey, bow bow, I said bow GET DOWN! yea I say —?
Okay, why they hating on the kid mane I done ran up 10k in 3 mother fucking weeks, ian posed to be drug dealing, I supposed to be somewhere hooping bitch. You somewhere loosing bitch. Get the fuck onEmbed