28 ContributorsThey Don’t Know Lyrics
They don't know what that star about, they don't know what that Barre about
They don't know what that candy car about or smokin' that jar about
Texas is the home of the players and pimps
Showin' naked ass​ in the great state of Texas
Third Coast born, that mean we're Texas raised
Texas, motherfucker​, that's where I stay

(Already)
What you know about swangers and vogues? (What?)
What you know about purple drank? (What?)
What you know about poppin' trunk? (What?)
With neon lights and candy paint
What you know about white shirts? (You don't know)
Starched-down jeans with a razor crease
Platinum and gold on top our teeth (What?)
Big ol' chains with an iced-out piece (Bing)
You don't know about Michael Watts (Nothin')
You don't know about DJ Screw (Nothin')
What you know about, man, hold up
I done came down and what it do? (Already)
You don't know about P-A-T (Uh)
What you know about free Pimp C?
What you know 'bout the Swishahouse? (What?)
Man, what you know bout the S.U.C.? (Nothin')
We keep it player, ain't no fake
We be holdin' plex whenever haters hate (Okay)
We listen to music screwed and chopped
Down here in this Lone Star State
Out-of-towners be comin' around
Runnin' they mouth and talkin' down
But you don't know nothin' 'bout my town
Either hold it down or move around
You might also like
They don't know what that star about, they don't know what that Barre about
They don't know what that candy car about or smokin' that jar about
Texas is the home of the players and pimps
Showin' naked ass​ in the great state of Texas
Third Coast born, that mean we're Texas raised
Texas, motherfucker​, that's where I stay

They don't know what that cheese about
They don't know what 83's about
They don't know but that's how it be's about
Or pour PT's up out
They don't know about sippin oil
They don't know about slabs that crawl
They don't know about gettin amped
Off three monsters wrapped in that four
They don't about about RBJ's
They don't know about Gulfway Drive
They don't know about Louis Manor or Carver Terrace
Them boys go live
They don't know about bumper grill
They don't know about puttin it down
They don't know about H-Town
Takin over the rap game and shuttin it down
Bun B baby I rep the trill
All about makin a dollar bill
Grip the grain, drip the stain
Dancin Swisha let's blow some kill
I'mma keep it real mayne show my skill
Pop my trunk and show my bang
Leave you numb like novacaine
'Til they free Pimp C, you know it mayne
They don't know what that star about, they don't know what that Barre about
They don't know what that candy car about or smokin' that jar about
Texas is the home of the players and pimps
Showin' naked ass​ in the great state of Texas
Third Coast born, that mean we're Texas raised
Texas, motherfucker​, that's where I stay

(Already)
Hold on, hold up a second, cuz
Boys comin' down blue or red (Man)
Down here, pimpin' ain't dead (Huh)
Grindin' daily to stack my bread
I'm from the place where girls jump fly (What?)
Nowadays, the broads pimp broads (Yup)
They got more game than most these guys
You'll get set up and then you'll get robbed (Gone)
You don't know about chunkin' the deuce (Nothin')
You don't know 'bout a Southside fade (Nothin')
Down here, we be ridin' D's
But you don't know about choppin' blades (What?)
At Texas Southern or Prairie View (What?)
What you know about battle of the bands?
Down here, we got ghetto grub
Like Williams Chicken or Timmy Chan's (Okay)
You can catch me ridin' swang
What you know about sippin' syrup? (Nothin')
You don't know about pourin' it up
Purple drank so speech is slurred (What?)
You don't know about the way we talk
Boys say we got country words (Huh?)
But I don't really care what you heard (Okay)
'Cause you don't know 'bout the Dirty Third
They don't know what that star about, they don't know what that Barre about
They don't know what that candy car about or smokin' that jar about
Texas is the home of the players and pimps
Showin' naked ass​ in the great state of Texas
Third Coast born, that mean we're Texas raised
Texas, motherfucker​, that's where I stay

Texas, motherfucker​, that's where I stay
Texas, motherfucker​, that's where I stay2Embed