2 ContributorsFernando Sez Lyrics
I'm recording again and you know why
Well I need money, babe, and that's no lie
Fernando says my car is trash and he wants cash

My car is old, babe, but it's still good
I wouldn't change it baby if I could
I really like that old Cadillac
Fernando says that he won't give it back

I never liked no Jap cars, ain't startin' up now
The whole world's gone crazy anyhow
Public transportation gets me down
Might end up in a bad part of town

Fernando says it's understood
No offense your credit ain't good
You white folks had it, it's all gone now
You never had no rhythm anyhow

Fernando says, "Take a clue"
Fernando says, "You're overdue"
Fernando says, "Take in mind"
Fernando says, "It's cash on the line"
You might also like
"Yeah man, you want everything. Want me to share your car, take the  here and there out, but there's no hondo here. Just too fast. I don't want chamato."
"But look here, friend, you got to give me a break now man. Well a man without his, his Cadillac, you know, he, he, well he just don't, he just don't feel like a, like a real man no more."
"I need to get paid. I need some money here in order for me to continue this. No more  in and out. You need to pay up now. Ya no puedo trabajar por nada. Necito, necito, dinero, este trabajo es muy duro pa que uno esté aquí nomás, batallando. Ay que I got a family to keep up."
"Yeah I got a wife and two kids myself, man. You, you gotta cut me some slack here friend."
"You haven't paid me in a long time. No me ha pagado en mucho tiempo, necito que me pague ya! Si no, no vua entregar el carro."
"Well I got ten dollars, I was gonna buy the kids some new shoes. I guess, well I guess they, well..."
"My  need  and trabajos too."
"Well, the way you run it, the way you run your business here, I bet your kids got more shoes than Carter's got pills. What about the tires, the wheels you promised me? You were going to get me some wheels here. What happened to 'em? I need a valve job, I need one of those Handelbrot valve covers, it looks good man. Double the Hollywood exhaust, with the glass pack mufflers, that's what I'm looking at here. What's that gonna run me here?"
"Pay up the last bill, and then we'll talk about a new one. We need to get some zapatos for my kids. You're worrying about your kids, what about my children?"
"Well, I..."
"They need to eat too. Ellos tienen que ir a la escuela, they need educación, we need to really sit down and discuss this."
"What a world. Smile today, cry tomorrow."Embed