1 ContributorMarried to the Game LyricsWho killed Chris Lighty?
Married to the game even when she disliked me
Message to the fame monsters I'm the only Ghost Buster
Seeing thru ya Jazz, Ray Charles and the Soul Brother
While they want the kidd dead and gone, I still send itches cross they heads with no cortizone
Open up the booth and let's record a song
The shit ain't been the same since Death ran from Autotune
Shout out to the jiggaman Hova
Ports Riff Raff word to Jody Highroller
Tell the middle man I need an eight and four quarters
So we can smoke the earth until there's blood around our corneas
Prophecy the legend in the game
I hear the realest changes make the petty things the same
You know the cost of making all your dreams come true
What if you had a choice to make your dreams come true?
Would you take it? I'd rather be real then to fake it
Can't sell originality to win a chance to make it
I wanna be the greatest, not a fable for the label
When I get my money right, put the cash across the table
TeleviSed as exclusive all I'm seeing is reruns
Your life is like a movie. Nigga gimme my refund
Original but I never see one. Them boys spitting minute maid juice but can never compete son
The game has been violated. Swear to God you don't understand. Hi hater. Married to the game but the game never liked me. Major management RIP Chris Lighty
Lou from the ninth, have you forgot who nice?
Married to the game, no pologomy
Erasing any & everybody, sorry not sorry
Lyrical assassin and bandit
These hands have damage
Been working out, so you can't withstand it
This the jedi flow, hands down
Don't fuck around with the fuck around
And I'm a different seed, they implanted me
When I was young, what you saying son
Get off yo ass grind like strippers do
Get your hands up
Like you traded for yo people
But don't be smart want a dumb nigga, well I go dumb for them funds
Run it like the man, shake something don't break nothin
But i'm talking bout the band til it's moldy and stank
With the loud that we faced
Most in court fighting a case
And then they go insane
Some don't have nothin to say
You might also likeThe game has been violated. Swear to God you don't understand. Hi hater. Married to the game but the game never liked me. Major management RIP Chris Lighty
Yeah first thing's first, this Killa from the city
With the flow so sick, and the verses so witty
Turning niggas heads, have em bopping like diddy
Man these niggas are my sons, come suck on mama titty
And my confidence on Kanye, got shooters with me all day
So you can never try me, you'll be singing like Beyonce
I'm hot I'm so Picante, stay low so you can't find me
You thinking you can beat me, well I think that's unlikely
I'm getting better with time, stay crossing the line
They thinking that I'm soft, I think you outta yo mind
Cause I stay on my grind, tryna chill all the time
I kick my gear into drive
Taking off on you niggas like I'm Usain Bolt
And i'm only smoking gas, y'all niggas smoke that dope
Niggas hear me on the track, like damn she dope
But I been hot nigga, y'all slow like poke
Never call me a joke, when you look like a clown
I'm only wearing my crown, so you can bow down
I'm running my city, I'm ruling my town
And for the first act of order, everybody smoke loud
I'm the queen and the game is my motherfucking king
We in this shit for life, throw the rice get the wings
Niggas switching up, nah imma stay the same
This Port City nigga, ain't a damn thing changedEmbed