3 ContributorsI Catch Fire Lyrics
And the city did sink into the depths of the sea
And the inhabitants thereof were drowned
Sparks frightening and there were exceedingly sharp lightnings
Such has never had been known, falter scared in all the land
This is dedicated to fire, what came first liar
Spine of titanium
An invisible alien hawk stalks the lost jungles of Asia
Killing soldiers, thrilling heat holders
The eldest dragon, you be held assassins
Whether cellar mast, been backwards clever never
Embezzler, interstellar bastard, bad pretty dastardly city
The Tasmanian devil was called the devil by early European settlers
Who were terrified by its demonic cries lost
All along the horror score, fire wasp
All along the horror score, fire wasp
At last you crash like the Colossus of Rhodes, jump away like toad
Tired of being harassed by your stupid parents
Bionic bomb shelters, sub-atomic, incoherent lyrics to a cometh
It took a day to reach the summit. the high cost of living
Turkey F-A-N-G-S giving. I bring lightning. I'm king Pisces of the ocean
Just swimming. It never go to extra innings
Friend I'm the pride of beside, Henry Jekyll much obliged your eyes
Mr. Edward Hyde. The good witches ride
And Frankenstein can't help to rhyme, I spark and laugh in the dark
And boss the holocaust. Gone to concrete island of Alcatraz
Two about to blast, man listen I'll swallow a gun and go to San Quentin
I catch fire
I catch fire
I catch fire
You might also like
A shark's eyes are 10 times more sensitive to light
In rap a hired killer, he like Linus and the blanket
Real vampires prefer cows to Hollywood actresses
The ceiling collapsed and caved in
I catch fire
A shark's eyes are 10 times more sensitive to light
In rap a hired killer, he like Linus and the blanket
Real vampires prefer cows to Hollywood actresses
The ceiling collapsed and caved in
I catch fire

The Ancient Egyptians bathed in blood of pagan prescriptions
Words chosen, stolen, so misbehaved by a thug
MC so badly crushed
That he was loosing a cup of blood with every heartbeat
I stalk obsolete
At night, I walk and talk on the street, the midnight rambler
I've been waiting for four long years, buried in the sand
Under the shade of a tree, and it's just a matter of time
Until a large man will use the tree as a sun shade
And that's when I launch my attack, nigga I can rap
The assassin bug lives in Latin American, the best
Does your home have an uninvited guest?
The body will shut down after losing on floor
Four Pints of vital thresh
When the sun goes down in America
Just South of nowheres, sos don't go there
A murder in Silent Hill, for real, I'm the violent tyrant still
A deadly spider crawling in your toys
Boys in New York there are nine rats to every person
This one, my noise, red heavy curtains
When the moon goes down in America, an executioner goes to work
Gloriously destructive, the eldest dragon
I'm sinister as a ghost that lurks. A murder on Shadow Mountain
Police blood hounds used to track down the killer
The stealth hazard, you draw it in
And store held captive by armed men

Something made of pieces fitted together
The killer moth the bird killer off, kind bounty bastard
Find the last hazard county, Alaskan light madmen standing
I strike liver then bad friend, A white spider assassin
Assemblage, crime-ending, a collection or gathering assembly line
Chinese wine, I'm hollow, I swallow my pocket change to a dime
No discreet street patriotic language. I am Procrustes
A villain of Greek mythology who made his strange victim's anguish
Inlaid, work made from small pieces
We can debate life
We can debate life
We can debate life about a piece of unrecorded tape
That is used for threading the tape onto a tape drive
Lose when you snooze and ooze women who gather supports
Reports or comments on the news. Enemies bleed
Famous for some bad quality or deed
Like a hired killer. A campfire thriller
London England produced the first police force the niggas lost
Medieval during the village at night hyenas hurt fifty people
And black mamba has been known to kill seven people in, in fact
One attack. The scorpion kills one thousand people every year
Snakes are only carnivores themed, a fucking box jellyfish sting
In 1897 Bram Stoker wrote Dracula. Off a place staked
The werewolf coyote he escaped
Ignore it, signs of the vampire's legend began in Eastern Europe
Where blood sucking creatures were once thought to be
The souls of the dead that rose from the bed and grave quiet
And wandered about the night, to drink the blood from living
But hombre I'm eyeful with a rifle
Like Clint Eastward in Unforgiven
I'm above it to no purpose, thinking nothing of it
My Chronos is like playing catch or skipping rope with a ghost
The holocaust, I leave you lost like, in hope
A large Bermuda triangle boat, Holmes. I'm loud
So bloods on the wing. Alcatraz is too proud
I killed 48 men and one for snoring too loud
Embed