3 ContributorsAmerican Cheese Lyrics
- And ladies and gentlemen, this is once where I could really open by asking who's tending the firm?
- Hahahahahahaha
- Mr. President, I have a question here, what can the government leaders and the dairy farmers do to work together to solve this, "Surplus" problem?
- Well, we're trying very, hard with that, and as a matter of fact, we recognize that that problem was created by a government, not by the farmers
- We know that  being everywhere, we got enough!
- Let them !
- Ma'am, please, wait in, I'll get there! Right now in Congress, it's some-I'm trying to tell you! I am-I know now, there is no program or promise that a president can be, think that the federal government can even come in, and wave a wand and do that!
And what we're seeking is legislation, to, set the, support level, in getting rid of the, the present surplus
- And last night, I tell you to watch that thing on television, as I did
- Yeah
- To see those, those monkeys from those African countries, they're still uncomfortable wearing shoes
- Hahahahaha!
9 out of 10 Americans believe that the courts in their home areas are tough enough on criminals, the perception is growing that the crime problem stems from the emergence of a, new privilege class in America
As you know, one of the most critical duties that we faced upon taking off this was (ahh!), controlling the influx of illegal drugs into this country
Long time residents say recent increases here in fancy trucks and cars, gold jewellery and new houses are due to illegal drug money
- From this prickly and economical stand point of view, this city's in better shape
We do, draw distinctions between violent crime, sophisticated crime or between crimes like drug pushing and crimes like bribery, the truth is, crime doesn't come in categories, it's part of a pattern, if one sector, prospers, in a community of crime, so ultimately do all the others
:
Come on!
Uh, she was like Zoe Sardana in Colombiana (Yeah!)
I make a call, she'd hit it with the yama
9mm parabellum (Huh)
With Meyhem Lauren in the McLaren runnin' errands (Skr)
Put the call on the elevator to the terrorist (Call me)
We at the top of the game
You better get a rocket if you rockin' a chain (Go get a gun)
I can get you cocaine dusted in border
Break it down with a pestle and mortar (Huh)
My gun still shoot covered in mud (It still shoot)
Over weed too, I'm lovin' the bud (I love you, I love you)
Me and you is diff, you never had the piff (Never, bitch!)
I was huggin' the Strip (Hah)
Cops found your blood puddled in a ditch (They found you)
Sent your corpse home to cuddle with your bitch (Bitch)
You'll never see it come
Megacity one
Come on!
You might also like:
I'm in the Cybertruck, fly as fuck, try your luck (Futuristic (yeaah!) shit, bitch)
I'm in the Cybertruck, fly as fuck, try your luck (Try your luck, nigga, haha)
Come on!
The limit is the sky but I'mma go higher
I said the limit is the sky but I'mma go higher (Yeah!)
I said the limit is the sky but I'mma go higher
Come on and...!
:
Light this coma? in Tijuana (Light it)
Car interior raw paint, color ganja (Uh)
I'll give you a job, you don't give drug tests (You'll work with me)
Give out samples, fiends give the drugs a test (Get that work, man)
The dope a nine will retent, the line could begin (Yo, line up, line up, line up)
Single foul like my taxes (No line)
I'm a socialist with Bachelor's
I own my Master's (We owners)
Give a fuck about a bad bitch (Give a fuck about you)
Without a bag she average (Yeahh!)
She need the type o' cheese I blow on trees (Uh)
In and out dispensaries, avoid the penitentiaries
Skatin' on 12, won't see vice laters (I won't see you later)
Pure sativa (yeahh!) and rice pager
Come on and...!
Electric vice at the light, hater (Haaa!)
Assorted flavors like LifeSavers (Candy)
Mom in bed said the right prayers, (come on and...!)
Pray for me (Uh)
:
The limit is the sky but I'mma go higher
I said the limit is the sky but I'mma go higher
:
A man who on every occasion, has given the best that he hasEmbed