33 ContributorsViolet Stars, Happy Hunting!!! Lyrics
I'm an alien from outer space (outer space)
I'm a cybergirl without a face a heart or a mind
(I'm a product of the metal, I'm a product of metal, I'm a product of the man)
See, see, see, see, see
I'm a slave girl without a race (without a race)
On the run cause they're here to erase and chase out my kind
They've come to destroy me (they've come to destroy me)
And I think to myself

Impossibly, wait it's impossible
They're gunning for me (that they're gunning for you)
And now the army's after you
(And now they're after you)
For lovin' too
Uh huh and all the sirens go doo doo
Sirens go doo doo, doo doo, doo doo
Doo roo roo roo roo roo roo roo
Ohh baby ooh you know the rules
(I love you and I won't take 'no' for an answer)

They say that Violet Stars will set you free (set you free)
When you're running lost and alone
Following them down up Neon Valley Street (up Neon Valley Street)
A pretty day makes a pretty picture
But fall in love and they're coming to get ya
Who knew 10 men with guns were at the door (at the door)
The Droid Control (THE DROID CONTROL)
You might also like
Impossibly, wait it's impossible
They're gunning for me (that they're gunning for you)
And now the army's after you
(And now they're after you)
For lovin' too
Baby I hear the sirens go doo doo
Sirens go doo doo, doo doo, doo doo
Doo roo roo roo roo roo roo roo
Come on baby, cause here they come
You know the rules

*Sounds of escape and (*The Chase*)*
Look this way...Here she go, here she go
I see it...go this way, go this way, go this way... out the window. Out the window!
Don't let her get out the window!
Alll my cyboys and cybergirls!
Get Up if you gon' get Down!
Citizens, pull your pants UP
And cyborgs pull your pants Down!
Round yo' ankles and show yo' rust
Shake yo' tank, you know it’s a must
Now go ask Cindi Mayweather
Get on up here and just...
Baby, lemme just see ya squeak!
 + 
I said I love my baby so! (Impossibly, they're gunning for me)
I said I love my baby so! (and now the Pawn is after you)
And he loves me too! (for loving, too)
He loves me too! Loves me too! (Sirens go doo doo doo...)
I said OHH! (You know the rules)
I said OHH! Oh, baby! (Impossibly, they're gunning for me, and now the army is after you... for loving, too)
(Sirens go doo doo doo...)
Oh, oh, oh, OWW!
Y'all better shut up!3Embed