1 Contributor50 Pounds of Weed In The Trunk Lyrics100 dollar freestyle, baby baby
You already know what's good
Ay, lemme holla at you one more time
Let me tell you the deal, man
Wait for the beat to drop in, feel me?
On yea, I like this one. Ha. Heh heh
Oh, wow, man, it’s a groovy little number
What? What? Damn. Heh
Yes, yes, ya'll, and it don't stop
To the mother fuckin’ beat, ya'll
And it don't stop
To the mother fuckin' beat, ya'll
Heh, ay
Yes, yes, ya'll, feel the funk, ya'll
Fifty pounds of weed in the trunk, ya'll
Yes, yes, ya’ll, feel the funk, ya’ll
Fifty pounds of weed in the trunk, ya'll
Yes, yes, ya’ll, feel the funk, ya'll
Fifty pounds of weed in the trunk, ya'll
Yes, yes, ya'll, feel the funk, ya’ll
Fifty pounds of weed in the trunk, ya'll
Yes, yes, ya'll, feel the funk, ya'll
In the trunk, ya'll
Yes, yes, ya'll, feel the funk, ya'll
Got 100 pounds of weed in the trunk, ya'll
You might also likeYes, yes, ya'll. It's bigger than rap, man
It's deeper than you thunk, ya'll
I gotta a hundred fucking pounds of weed up in the trunk, ya'll
Yo, hella punk ya'll
But I still ain't know punk ya'll
Language is a contradiction, listen to my diction
That's some cold nonfiction
Listen to the beat, plus the pressure, plus the friction
Treasure my convictions, hold 'em dear to your heart
See me, I'm 100% pure art
It's so real, wow, don't give a fuck how you feel now
And forever. Fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck, fuck everybody
Ya, funky fresh, cheddar getter, every track be better than the last one. Money, money, fashion
Bout that action, beast mode
Gang on a leash, beat the beat like they gave me the cheat code
Heh, always take the conscience to  to the skreet code
Yo, yeesh, I go super freaky-deaky on
Never could you say I didn't do what I wanted to do to
Dog, I don't play, I give you ever last bar that I thought I would and
You thought I wouldn't, maybe you thought I couldn't, but I did it, though
You was  mistaken
Yo, I'm bumpin' 40 in the station wagon
Making magic
Yo, uh, place me like Echo 8 on the chess board, the black king kickin' you fresh words
Mackin', slappin' any ass that we need in that seedy rap
Kool A.D., who he? Oh he be that dude who be slingin' that aphrodisiac rap slow medium fast whatever the fuckin' tempo is
 I'm a mother fuckin' god, mayne
I'm a god in the temple, kid
Listen to the sentences arranged by the mental
It's essential, isn't it? Vision it
Ya, um, never was a kid so persistent with it
Shimmy, shimmy, ya, I'm an idiot
Na, fuck it, I'm a genius, probably
 probably with the gods off of molly
 chumps, oo-chie wally, allie-oop, sorry dude
Your boy godly woo, choppin' away,  off of a haze
Cigarette, cops are all way fuckin' stupid idiots
They should kill theyself, see me I'm , try to  the game with a pay well
Call me RL Burnside with the Maybelle
Maytag repair man style cold wash you
Oh my fuckin' god I'll fuckin' bop a fool
Styles you cannot do
Heh, who woulda dot cool could ever fuckin' bring the heat,  true, never, damn, what, never, nothin', else, but the holy, un-heard-of-truth
Everybody probably know, wow, who the fuck care?
Suck it, go fuck yourself
Everybody do a little dance
God damn, I'm the man, I'm the man
Kool A.D., best rapper in the landsEmbed