50 ContributorsRunners Lyrics
Hey, fellas. Where are the treadmills?
Oh, they right there in the back
Ooooweee! She bad! Oh, that's why I love this gym - that's why I love this gym!
Woo!  Man forget the bench press - today it is a cardio day for your boy! My goodness, she bad!
Holla at yo boy!

Uh, I can't lie, I admire beauty  like the next man
I still remember when I used to get my check cashed
Get my hair cut,  I hit the streets with my head gassed
Lookin' out for lil mommas with a fat fast
That's what my auntie used to tell me
My girl in my rear view tryin' to tail me
Cause she knew wasn't nothin' you could tell me
Always on the trail of another female
Well, well they say my papa was a playa'
So my dishonesty is honest in me baby
Somehow in college greek letters made me cuter
All the time on line I still couldn't compute it
Uh, I pledge girls then it's on to the next girl
My next girl eventually be my ex girl
But it's funny how it all unfolds
I done finally found a woman I ain't never lettin' go, whoa

Whoa she looking bad (Don't do it)
I wonder if she got a man (Don't do it)
I don't see no wedding band (Don't do it)
I promise you don't wanna go through it (Look take it from me)
You don't want no problems, problems (You don't want no problems)
You don't want no problems, problems (You don't want no problems)
You don't want no problems, G
Find yourself in the obituary columns sheet
You might also like
It ain't nothin' like a good woman
If you gotchu one of those, be good to 'em
Keep it a hunned, love everybody want it
But the lies and the lust keep em' lyin' next to us, But I got past it, now I'm known to pass it up
For my passion and I ain't here blastin'
Born sinner just like any man standin'
Couldn't keep the standard so God sent a stand-in
If you creepin' when you feel desire creep in
I know another way to win that don't involve cheatin'
Don't involve another heart broken into pieces
When her girl call and tell her she saw you off Peachtree
Meeting pretty underscore nice features
Had a couple drinks and had yourself a little piece and
Now you feelin' like the man in the streets
Pull up to the crib, see all of your pants in the streets, man

Whoa she looking bad (Don't do it)
I wonder if she got a man (Don't do it)
I don't see no wedding band (Don't do it)
I promise you don't wanna go through it (Look take it from me)
You don't want no problems, problems (You don't want no problems)
You don't want no problems, problems (You don't want no problems)
You don't want no problems, G
Find yourself in the obituary columns sheet
Uh, Lashonda...
Baby, why all my clothes in the street? What's what's what's going...
Oh, you don't know why your pants is in the street? (Yeah)
Hah, yeau, Shiquina told me she seen you on Peachtree (Uh)
Uh huh, all up in t(Well, well) he girl face, - yo(See that's, that was my) gotta go!
You Ts my cousin, that was my sister, I mean like a friend Uh uh of my sister, it's like
No, I don't wanna hear it
It's like a friend
Shut up!
Get your stuff and go! Bye!

Woah (Don't do it)
I wonder if she got a man (Don't do it)
I don't see no wedding band (Don't do it)
I promise you don't wanna go through it (Look take it from me)
You don't want no problems (You don't want no problems)
You don't want no problems, problems (You don't want no problems)
You don't want no problems G
Find yourself in the obituary column sheet
(Da da da da da da da, di di di di di di di, da da da da da da, di di di di di )16Embed