1 ContributorRemember to Remember Lyrics
Pass the information
Extend the knowledge
John Coltrane said - A Love Supreme
I interpret that to - All Living Things
Donny Hathaway said - The Ghetto
Woody Shaw said - Why?
John F. Kennedy said - Ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country

Pass the information
Extend the knowledge
Martin Luther King said - I have a dream
Stevie Wonder said - Innervisions, interpretation, watch with your ears
Aretha Franklin said - Respect
Barry White said - Love
Nina Simone said - To be young, gifted, and black
James Brown said - Stay in school
Cannonball Adderley said - Sometimes, we are not prepared for adversity, mercy, mercy, mercy
Oliver Nelson said - Stolen moments
Isley Brothers said - Harvest for the world, I know there can be better days

Pass the information
Extend the knowledge
You might also likeRoger Franklin said - You'll never know
Hubert Law said - Say it with silence
Ashley Wilson said - Guess who I saw today
Earth, Wind and Fire said - Keep your head to the sky, I know there is a force wiser than I
The creator has a master plan - From the pen of Leon Thomas and Pharaoh Sanders
Alex Haley said - Roots
Gerald Wilson said - You better believe it
Charlie Parker said - Now is the time, wake up!
Billie Holiday said - God bless the child
LTD said - Love, togetherness, and devotion
Bobby Bland - Soon as the weather breaks
Sam Cooke - You Saved Me
Roy Ayers said - Believe in yourself
Gil Scott Heron said - Winter in America
Hugh Masekela said - Grazing in the grass
Richard Pryor said - How long?
How long will it take for us to become one?  How long will it take for us to become unified?  How long will it take us to understand the meaning of understanding?  How long will it take us to do what we have to do that's most important? How long will it take up our  to oversee?  How long is how long it will take us.  We must see beyond the eyes.  Focus in on the soul.  Love
Wake up!  See beyond the eyes 
Remember the past, and begin with the future 
Malcolm X
Muhammad Ali
Marcus 
Rick Holmes
Miriam Makeba
Richard Pryor
Adam Clayton Powell
Martin Luther King
Elijah Muhammad
W. B. Dubois
Frederick Douglas
Nat Turner
Tom Bradley 
Barbara Jordan 
Sherry Shism 
Ron Doughins 
Andrew Young
Anwar Sadat
Clara Holmes
George Washington Carver
Cesar Chavez
Sidney Poitier
Count Basie
Duke Ellington
Fats Domino
Art Tatum
Fats Waller
Gil Robinson 
Eric Dolphy
Rahsaan Roland Kirk
Paul Rogan 
Stevie Wonder
Minnie Riperton
Louis Armstrong
Remember
All of these people, and more, have made strong contributions to mankind.  Because of their compassion and humanitarianism, even with their simple , based around love and unity, peace, 
Factor that
These  men and women, have made their great contributions to mankind.  We are to pass it on for the next generation
We shall never forget
Remember to remember to never forget
How long?  How long?  How long is how long
How long will it take?  How long will it take, man?
How long will it take for us to come together?
It'll take us as long as you make it
May not prolong your life, life you 
Generations do 
Focus
Are you computerized?
Are you on time?Embed