1 ContributorBest Albums of 2006 LyricsTake this list for what it's worth. In the words of the dude, "This is just like, my opinion man." These albums appear in no particular order:
1. TV on the Radio - Return to Cookie Mountain - I seemingly stumbled upon this band. I heard they were playing Soho in SB so I brushed up on some of their tunes before the show, bought my tickets and checked them out. One of the best live shows of the year. This album is solid from start to finish. Great energy and an overall unique sound. They've already been endorsed by the likes of David Bowie so I foresee big things fo TVOTR
2. Gnarls Barkley - St. Elsewhere - I think I bumped this album more than any other this year. Danger Mouse has got to be one of the most innovative producers today and Cee-Lo is just flat out likeable. If you didn't hear "Crazy" like a million times this year, you were living under a rock. It was the biggest single of the year. This is a really fun and happy CD sure to lift your spirits at any time
3. Aloe Blacc - Shine Through - Many might remember Aloe Blacc as one half of LA Underground hip-hop act Emanon. In his solo debut, he establishes himself as a force in the R&B scene. I couldn't help, but think of John Legend when I heard this album. He even does a Spanish version of Legend's "Ordinary People" as a bonus track. Good musical, funky, ethnic (he's from Panama) hip-hop
4. Zero 7 - The Garden - Wow...I'm suddenly at a loss of words. Just when an artist's music couldn't get more beautiful, Zero 7 drops The Garden. Australian singer Sia Furler and guitarist Jose Gonzalez lend a hand to make this muscial masterpiece. Unprecedently, producer Sam Hardaker sings on two of the tracks as well. The evolution of this group is just mesmerizing as this album proves to be the most musical installment and tickles your emotions much like 2004's When It Falls did. Do yourself a favor if you haven't already and bring this album into your life..
5. Nightmares On Wax - Inna Space Outta Sound - NOW had to be my favorite "find" of 2006. A German guy I met in Brazil burned me a copy of their 2nd album Smoker's Delight and i took notice. Inna Space Outta Sound broke open the storm gates inot a vast library of ambient/trip-hop beats that rank with the best of them. Definately a reggae dub influence, but it's the production quality sets it apart
6. J-Dilla - Donuts - If someone put a gun to my head and told me to pick my favorite album off of this list, it'd be this one. It's a shame that this record dropped posthumously for the ever-talented Jay Dee. This is a collection of old soul, funk, etc... records that J-Dillas drops and mixes so tastefully. It's just a beautiful record. I read a comment from another artist that this album makes him cry when he hears it. I think it's a testament to how timeless the selections are and it really reflects on the life of one of the greatest hip-hop producers of our time and how he made us feel through his music
7. Soul Position - Things go Better With RJ and Al  - My main man big D says this album's intro is one of the best he's ever heard and I agree. It's a prelude to a great album. Bluprint's "fuck it all" mentality coupled with the always entertaining production of RJD2 is an awesome combination. Just good hip-hop at a relatively lackluster period for the genre, these two rise above
8. Pearl Jam - Pearl Jam - I grew up listening to this band and through my transition form an alternative rocker to an underground hip-hopper, to my current state as a fusion-minded eclectic, I still like what I hear. If this is a lackluster period for hip-hop, then alternative rock is about to die. Pearl Jam provides a breath of fresh air with their self titled album (also known as the blue album with an avocado on the cover). I caught a 3 hour live set on this tour and Eddie Vedder, Jeff Ament, et al. are still rockin (in the free world)
9. The Roots - Game Theory - I'd like to preface this entry with a big "FUCK YOU" to my friends who gave up on The Roots after Phrenology and said that The Tipping Point didn't sound like The Roots. The Roots have probably the most intriguing evolution of any hip-hop act out there. On the live hip-hop food chain, they sit at the top and Game Theory reinforces that. Black Thought lets you know precisely what's on the minds of the group, beginning with their call out track "False Media." What ensues is a fluent expression of the kind of hip-hop that you have to earn the right to produce. ?uestlove is a hip-hop renaissance man right up there with the likes of Mos Def and Common. His drum solo on Halloween eve rocked L.A. to pieces. I'm on the edge of my seat waiting to see what boundaries The Roots plan on establishing and crossing next
10. Aceyalone (with RJD2) - Magnificient City - "Yehhsss!" I grew up in L.A. and Aceyalone has always been one of my favorite all-time MC's. When I heard that he teamed up with RJD2, it was almost unbelievable. The possibilities were endless and I was anxious to hear this project. This pairing worked so well. Acey's style was perfectly captured within the realm os RJ's vast musical stylings. RJ kept it jazzy and funky and Acey showed signs of reurning to the happy-go-lucky form that made him an L.A. hip-hop icon with Freestyle Fellowship and later as a solo artist. Also, this was my favorite show of 2006. First RJD2 plays an hour of his music. If you've never seen him, the dude mixes on 4 turntables with extreme mastery and no headphones in sight. Aceyalone proceeded to play a chronological review of all of his classics leading up to this point, with RJ on the decks and then they dropped just about every track off of Magnificient City. This was some kid in a candy store type shit...

Word...So did I miss anything? I'm sure I did. It's hard to recollect all the great music that came out in the past year. I gotta give thanks to www.artistdirect.com for letting me know exactly when these albums came out (Beck's Guerolito, Little Brother's The Minstrel Show and Dangerdoom's The Mouse and the Mask woulda made this list, but they came out in the tail end of 2005. )
Hollaback with some other records that were making you feel the vibe in 2006. Happy New Year!
Spinelli1Embed