2 ContributorsThe Tale Lyrics(Ty talking)
'Yes. This is a cautionary tale
You can ... take it any which way you wanna
I mean no disrespect in part two
As we just ... alright ... let me ...' (Ty's voice fades)
It was a sunny afternoon, somewhere between April, May or maybe June
The year had been quite busy
And I was just taking a break from having to make a tune
I was chilling with my cousin rude boys undercover just ...
Watching the place
Sitting opposite the tube
And this girl walked up and said "I recognise your face
"Your name's Ty isn't it? I seen you in this and that magazine"
I was quite chuffed really
Looked slightly at my cousin and we both said "seen!"
One month later she phones me up
"I'm in the area, can I come up?" I'm like "please!"
Turned to my brethren said
"I love you like a brother, but BRAH you got to leave!"
(Ty talking)
You know what I'm saying? You got to leave! If you met this girl right
You'd understand. You - have - got - to - go. Thank you
Check my reflection in the mirror
Spray a little air fresh, splash a little brut
Answer the intercom, "is Ty there?" Oh, oh, she sounds cute!
I take her jacket and she's left with a white dress going from here to here
I offer her a drink, but she only wants water, I'm like "oh yeah!"
The conversation goes from vague, idle chat to thinly veiled come ons
Blood leaves my brain, my whole body's a drum stick ... anxious to drum on
How shall I approach this? I'm virtually brain dead plus the line's busy
I begin with a little friendly WWF and touch the titty!
You might also like(Girl talking, Ty whistling in background)
Hold on, what are you doing? What are you doing? Are you trying to touch
Any of this? Who are you? Just because ... (Girl's voice fades)
Felt so ashamed! Had to excuse myself by pretending to take the piss
Walked to the mirror, splashed water on my face and said "man what is this?"
Get a grip Ben, just because the girl's here doesn't mean you're in
Ha, this sexy bullshit can mess up the player
And make you think your lover's king
(Ty talking)
Ohhh boy. Listen ...
You know when you're in one of those predicaments where it's like
Just, oh what can I say, I can't say ... (Ty's voice fades)
I left the bathroom with a clear head
Expecting her to moan, apologetic in the worst way
She's butt naked on the sofa
Smiling like a joker 'T-Y it's your birthdayyy!'
(Ty talking)
No, no, no, no, no, no, no, y'know, no!
You don't, listen, you don't have to ask me what happened next!
Anyway, lets just say ... mighty fun was had by all!
Of course this is fictional, so. Y'knowEmbed