7 ContributorsDa Story Lyrics
It was four in the mornin', got a call on the cell
What the hell, these niggas just shot at Rell?
Yo, they missed though, blazed Mous by his ribs so
Now it's our turn to play calypsos, yo
Me and you, meet me by the two
A war goin on that's involvin' the crew
Bring both your arms
Rell and Moose down in St. John's
I wish my nigga was home, the black Fonz
Yo, we rock charms as big as Vegas
Different crews of different size try to player hate us
Top of the league like Bulls and y'all cats is Lakers
Trash since Magic left, but he was the greatest
Ayo, we call Shan, yo, Shan, peace, God
You and Maze got the info?
Them cats that tried to shoot Mous' hitmen, yo?
A nigga named Ricky from the Bronx, cold wop city
Thugged out, shoot his gat mad sickly
I laid low, called Big Pun and Fat Joe
Them niggas my clique, we three amigos
They said that they knew the cat, exactly where he live at
And when I get there, just blaze, god, and don't look back
'Cause Ricky got no kids and no wifey
So when I get there, god, it's like more than likely
There's Ricky like Ricardo, plus Renaldo
So when I get there, take the coke, plus the cargo, what?
You might also like
We strong-arm, blaze the firearm norm, calm
When the beef come niggas storm on
We strong-arm, blaze the firearm norm, calm
When the beef come niggas storm on

Yo, like a day pass, I'm bandana'd up with a mask
Just shot up the whole spot, crib to grass
Pissed in his toilet, on his walls, in his halls
Cut Ricky from his neck to his balls
Anyone can bust a gun and stab a nigga is real
'Cause you gotta have the guts for the way that it feel
Word got back, them niggas said Ricky a rat
All that coke we took and we cooked the crack
The police don't really want us, they want the coke back
It's impossible, just stashed the work by the hospital
Across from the mall right in Hoffman Park
It's in tennis bags, guarded by a hundred Arabs
Yo, we swerve low, beside the Jake, there go Roberto
The brother of Ricky, he 'posed to be wild, it's gettin' deep
How he knew where I'm at? How he knew how I eat?
Pulled out, no doubt, Roberto grabbed the stick, we
Hit the spot, then we hopped in the whips
Now it's a chase on the highway, the L-I-E
Yo, them bourgeoisie niggas drive by me
Iraq banner, not he, my ahkhee
We strong-arm, blaze the firearm norm, calm (Uh-huh)
When the beef come niggas storm on
We strong-arm, blaze the firearm norm, calm
When the beef come niggas storm on

Ayo, we just crashed into the pole, now we roll
Another dutchie, calm down and stroll
On foot, my whole clique got control
Of the whole output, now we roll
Yo, any nigga be ya man for a minute, you know
Then he turn around once he know you got dough
It's like a cycle that recycle, man in the mirror like Michael
My whole clique down to snipe you
Since then, Roberto had beef with melanin men
Every nigga he hate was darker than him
Older niggas than him stay barkin' on him
Tellin' him he weak, he ain't touch my skin
But once again CNN prevail, do well
'Cause even the Genius don't really understand Hell
I did this, from Iraq, to livin' in a cell
So y'all niggas know, what?
Meet you back in Hell, what?

We strong-arm, blaze the firearm norm, calm (Meet y'all niggas in hell)
When the beef come niggas storm on (Hope to see you in Heaven nigga)
We strong-arm, blaze the firearm norm, calm (Where we go when we done)
When the beef come niggas storm on (Bring it back, baby)
We strong-arm, blaze the firearm norm, calm
When the beef come niggas storm on (Blaze it up, yo)
We strong-arm, blaze the firearm norm, calm (What?)
When the beef come niggas storm on (Iraq, motherfucker)
You know how we do this shit though, you know what I'm sayin'?
If you ain't regulatin' you gettin' regulated (Yeah, I know that)
See what I'm sayin', nigga, you're sittin' back whinin' about this paper, nigga (We all do)
Step up and take yours, you know what I'm sayin'? (Take that shit, son)
Stop cryin' like a bitch, these niggas get rich
Like that nigga Noreaga (Word up)
You know what I'm sayin'? Like that nigga Esco
The whole fuckin' QU, the jungle, the dirt (QU, uh-huh)
Diesel, Moneybag, Mousilini (Mousilini)
Know what I'm sayin? (M-A-Z-E)
Fuck y'all know about this shit?
(Y'all niggas don't know shit)
Strong-arm y'all niggas (Strong-arm y'all niggas)
Strong-arm y'all to death, faggots
(Fuck them niggas, son)
How you think I got here, bitches?
(How, how you got here, son?)
Strong-armin', baby (Strong-armin' this shit)
Strong-armin' them bitches (Regulatin' this shit)
Strong-armin' y'all niggas
Fuck them niggasEmbed