1 ContributorWishin’ and Hopin’ Lyrics(Seattle scenes)
MVO: As surgeons we live in a world of worst-case scenarios. We cut ourselves off from hoping for the best because too many times the best doesn't happen. But every now and then something extraordinary occurs ...
(Cristina is sitting on her bed playing with her ring. George and Callie are in the elevator. Izzie and Bailey are outside of SGH looking at the sign that says Denny Duquette memorial clinic)
MVO: ...and suddenly best-case scenarios seem possible.
Izzie: Eight days, eight million dollars
Bailey: And we are open for business.
MVO: And every now and then...something amazing happens.
(Ellis is at the nursing home, Meredith is watching her.)
Mrs. Henry: She woke up this morning completely aware. She's her old self. It happens. Medically we don't know why. It's just a random gift.
Meredith: So she's lucid? She remembers?
Mrs. Henry: Pretty much everything except the last five years. And of course she doesn't realize she has Alzheimer's. We thought she should hear it from you.
Meredith: So, she'll know me? I'm gonna walk in there and she'll know who I am?
Mrs. Henry: She's been asking for you.
MVO: And against our better judgment, we start to have hope.
(Burke walks up to Richard at the nurse's station)
Burke: Hey, Chief. I need a signature. I'd like to use the helicopter to transport a patient from Denver.
(Derek walks up)
Derek: Good morning, Chief. I found a way to fund a stereo tactic robot. I want to make sure you're on board before I...
Richard: It's a little early in the morning for you two to be chasing me down.
Burke: I'm gonna be doing a bloodless pulmonary valve translocation on this patient.
Derek: This machine is an excellent source of revenue for the hospital
(Mark and Addison are standing nearby)
Mark: Aren't you gonna get in there? You wanna be Chief you gotta fight with the big boys.
Addison: Oh, I intend to fight like a girl. I'll let them kill each other and then I'll be the only one left standing.
Mark: And then there's me. There you go underestimating me again.
Addison: Oh, it's not that I underestimate you, it's just that I don't think about you. At all!
Mark: Well, you should. (He walks over to where Burke, Derek and Richard are standing) I was, uh, heading down to the clinic. It's opening today and I thought it might be nice to show Dr. Bailey a little support.
Richard: Very thoughtful, Dr. Sloan. Think I'll join you. Gentlemen, if you'll excuse me.
Derek: Certainly. (To Mark) Nicely done.
Mark: Mm-hmm.
(Ellis room at the nursing home)
Ellis: Meredith! What is going on? When did you get back from Europe?
Meredith: I went to Europe for 2 months but that was...
Ellis: I've been sitting here, thinking about the fight we had. The things I said...I...I...I said some terrible things.
Meredith: It's fine.
Ellis: No! It's not. After you left I was upset. Did I have a breakdown? I must have had a nervous breakdown. I'm in a...is this a hospital? Because I...I can't remember anything for the past two months, Meredith. The last thing I remember is the fight we had. And...and listen, if you don't wanna go to medical school that is fine. It is your life, just...just take me home.
Meredith: I went to medical school.
Ellis: I wanna go home, Meredith. I need to go home.
Meredith: You are home. I went to Europe, five years ago. You got sick. You have Alzheimer's. This is your home. You live here now.
(Ellis breaks down)
Ellis: No! No!
Meredith: Mom.
Ellis: No!
(Ellis looks sick and starts to fall over)
Meredith: Mom? Mom? Mom!
(Meredith catches her)
Meredith: Some body call 911.
(Seattle scenes)
(Burke walks into the ambulance bay where Ellis is just being unloaded)
Meredith: She had sub-sternal chest pains...
Ellis: ...chest pains and sycopy. My pace was in the 200's but that rate has resolved on it's own.
(Burke helps Meredith out of the ambulance)
Meredith: She's completely lucid.
Burke: She's what...
Meredith: She's aware. She's herself again.
(They enter the hospital)
Ellis: My god, is this... are we in Seattle Grace?
Meredith: Yes mom, this is where I'm doing my residency.
Burke: Your daughter is one of our finest interns. Following in your very big footsteps.
Ellis: Do you know a Richard Webber? Is he still a doctor here?
Burke: What the Chief?
Ellis: Richard Webber's the Chief? Of surgery?
(The clinic)
Bailey: Hey, welcome to the Denny Duquette Memorial Clinic. Barring any surgical emergencies you will be working here today.
(The room is empty)
Cristina: Working on what?
Bailey: Right now, Olivia will be familiarizing you with the protocol for the flu vaccine.
(Alex is looking at something)
Izzie: Oh! No, no, no. Don't...don't touch that. That was...79 dollars.
Cristina: Oh, my God. I have got to get out of here. Burke has a bloodless pulmonary valve transplant patient flying in from Denver tomorrow. I should be preparing.
Alex: You don't get to scrub in on that valve trans-location.
Cristina: How do you know?
Alex: Because I am.
Cristina: He picked you?
Olivia: You guys ready?
Izzie: (To Bailey) Where is everybody?
Bailey: Uh, Grey will be late. O'Malley should be back from vacation.
Izzie: No, no, no. The patients, the underserved, uninsured population that we're supposed to be helping.
Bailey: The underserved, uninsured will come. You'll see. Just watch the door. They will come through it.
Izzie: I can't wait...for the first patient. It's gonna be amazing. It's gonna be amazing what Denny's money can do. Right?
Bailey: Just watch the door, Stevens.
(Izzie stares at the door. It opens and Mark and Richard enter)
Mark: Dr. Bailey, congratulations on the opening of the clinic.
Richard: It is open, isn't it?
(They both look at Izzie)
Richard: Is Stevens all right?
Bailey: She watching the door, sir.
Richard: Ok, then.
Izzie: Someone's coming.
(George and Callie enter)
Izzie: Damn it!
Bailey: O'Malley, welcome back. You're late.
Richard: Is O'Malley all right?
George: (Proudly) We got married in Vegas!
(Everyone stops what they are doing and looks at Callie and George)
George: We're married.
Alex: (Laughing) Dude, she's Callie O'Malley.
(Izzie is talking to George off to the side)
Izzie: It's fast, you know? It seems really very fast. Are you...are you even happy?
Callie: We're incredibly happy.
Izzie: Oh yay! Well great! Yay!
(George and Callie kiss)
George: Show her the ring.
Callie: Oh.
Izzie: Oh! That's so great. Tiny diamonds are great because you know no one will ever try to steal it.
(They both look at Izzie and everyone in the room has looks of disbelief on their faces.)
Bailey: Ok, that's it. Yang, Burke needs you in Cardio. O'Malley the chief has a surgical patient coming into the pit. Stevens, Karev, go find me some patients. I don't care where you get them just get them.
Bailey: Congratulations.
Callie: Thank you.
George: Thanks.
(Bailey walks away)
Callie: Ok, we've been out of our Vegas hotel room bubble for six hours and I don't like it.
George: It's gonna be fine. We're married.
(They kiss)
Callie: We're married.
(They kiss again)
Callie: All right
(George leaves and Bailey and Olivia just look at Callie)
(George is walking through the hall with Richard)
George: So, chief. We're a couple of married men.
Richard: Uh, Adele and I are...getting a divorce.
George: Uh...um...I didn't...
Richard: That's life, O'Malley. That's life. (They enter a patients room) Now, this patient. I removed a large tumor from her colon eight months ago. Since then she's been under going chemo and radiation. We thought she had it beat.
(A man enters)
Vincent: Excuse me, are you the doctors for Marina Wagner?
Richard: Yes, you brought her in?
Vincent: I woke up this morning she was barely breathing. You think this could be food poisoning? Cause we had sushi yesterday but I feel fine.
Richard: Could be complications from the radiation.
Vincent: What do you mean radiation?
Richard: From her cancer treatment.
Vincent: She doesn't have cancer. I'm her boyfriend, I'd know.
(Richard looks out the window and sees Ellis being wheeled by)
Richard: O'Malley get a CBC, a Chem-19 and a triple contrast abdominal CT. Excuse me.
George: Yes, sir.
(Richard walks into the hall)
Richard: What? Is she all right?
Meredith: She's...
Ellis: Richard Webber. My god you've aged.
Richard: Ellis?
Ellis: I was having arrhythmias, they wanted to do tests and...I hear you're the chief of surgery now. That's wonderful.
Richard: Yes, um...but I'm stepping down soon.
Ellis: Stepping down? Well, I can only assume that was Adele's idea. Meredith...
Meredith: I'll be right there, Mom. Go ahead. (Ellis is wheeled away) She's lucid. She woke up this morning with her memory back. They say it's temporary.
Richard: My God! Well, obviously, don't worry about work today. I mean, you need to be with her. I mean, this time...it's a gift.
Meredith: It's a gift. Right.
(Meredith enters the elevator where her mom is waiting)
(Burke is talking with Cristina at the nurse's station)
Burke: Meredith's mother had some runs of SVT. I'm ordering an Echo. And...she's lucid.
Cristina: What?
Burke: It happens but it won't last.
Cristina: Is Meredith ok?
Burke: Seems fine but...her mother's gonna need the best care we have to offer and you Dr. Yang are the best. (She smiles) You're still not wearing the ring. I would like an answer. It's been over a week.
Cristina: I told you, it's under advisement.
Burke: Oh, do you not like the ring?
Cristina: It's a ring. It's a three-carat, diamond cut, platinum. It's...it's the ring.
Burke: Then what?
Cristina: Are you using the surgery tomorrow to pressure me into giving you an answer? Is that why I'm not scrubbing in?
Burke: I need to give the other interns a chance.
Cristina: Why?
Burke: The Echo please, Dr. Yang.
(Alex and Izzie sit down next to a guy in the waiting room)
Izzie: Hey. You been waiting long?
Man: Almost an hour?
Izzie: Mmm.
Man: Are you my doctor?
Izzie: I can be. We have a clinic right outside those doors. No wait.
Alex: What's wrong with you?
Man: It hurts when I pee.
Alex and Izzie: Oh!
Alex: We can help with that.
Izzie: Yeah, it's easy. It's nothing. We could have you outta here in less than an hour.
Man: Are you hitting on me.
Izzie: We need patients. You need doctors. And we just happen to be surgeons.
Man: You think I need surgery?
Alex: You never know.
Izzie: It's free. A free clinic.
Man: But my co-pays only ten bucks.
Izzie: That's lunch.
(A woman coughs nearby)
Alex: Sounds like TB.
Izzie: Yeah. Very contagious.
(Cristina is doing Ellis' Echo)
Ellis: You and Meredith are good friends? I can tell. Because you're afraid to look at me. As if I might ask you some personal question about her and you'll accidentally slip. But you don't do anything accidentally, do you? Has Meredith chosen a specialty?
Cristina: That's a personal question.
Ellis: For surgeons, the most personal question you can ask. It tells you who they are.
Cristina: My mother would wanna know whether I had a boyfriend.
Ellis: You're mother sounds like a frivolous woman.
Cristina: If I chose cardio-thoracic's, what would that say about me?
Ellis: Heart surgeons are the know-it-alls. They're the most ambitious, the most driven. They want it all and they want it now. And they don't want anything getting in their way. Meredith says I'm part of an Alzheimer's research study. I want a neuro consult with the doctor who put me in the trial.
(Cristina walks into the ambulance bay where Meredith is standing)
Cristina: Hey, Mer. I've been looking for you. Burke has me on your mom. Are you ok?
Meredith: I'm avoiding her. I'm avoiding the gift.
Cristina: Yeah, well, uh...your gift wants to meet Derek.
Meredith: What? What did you say?
Cristina: No, no, no. Not Derek your boyfriend, Derek the neurosurgeon. She's gonna know that's he's your boyfriend anyway. She has ways. I'm kind of in love with her, by the way.
Meredith: she has that effect on people who aren't her daughter.
(Izzie wheels by with the man who hurts when it pees)
Izzie: Hey! I heard about your mother. That's unbelievable.
Meredith: Yeah. It's a gift.
Cristina: She avoiding her.
Izzie: Mer, she's your mother. And she's really here.
Cristina: This is your chance, you should talk to her.
Izzie: You should spend some time with her.
Meredith: She has a very long history of being disappointed in me.
Izzie: You're a doctor now. Parental disappointment ends with medical degree.
Man: Could we get moving? It hurts when I pee.
Cristina: Are you stealing patients from the ER?
Izzie: Yes. But only because I have to know that I did not spend my entire inheritance on an empty room with empty beds. Because if I did that I might go crazy and George called dibs on all the crazy this week. Do you think Callie's pregnant?
Man: I'm going back to the ER.
Izzie: Ok. Just keep your pants on. We're going.
Meredith: What...what...what...what? What's going on?
Cristina: Oh, yeah. Bambi got married.
(Meredith motions for George to come out of Marina's room)
George: Everything ok? Are you off today?
Meredith: You got married?
George: Yeah, I did. It was uh...I know it was impulsive.
Meredith: Well was it good impulsive or was it Meredith impulsive? Because if it was Meredith impulsive maybe I can help get you out of it.
George: No...no it's a good thing.
Meredith: Good.
George: It's good, um...(They hug) but, uh...thanks for the backup.
Meredith: Your welcome. Congratulations, George.
George: Thank you.
(George goes back in the room just as Ellis walks up)
Ellis: Are you planning on coming to talk to me anytime soon?
(Alex is pushing a patient past the desk where Addison is sitting. Addison is staring at him with "dirty" in her eyes. Callie notices and comes over.)
Callie: Uh, you know those cartoons where there's a bear, uh, or whatever and it's starving and it looks at a table. And the table turns into this delicious cooked turkey with like, lines of deliciousness coming of it...
Addison: Oh, I was not looking at him like that. Because he is the help and I am not going to be sleeping with the help.
Callie: I married the help.
Addison: What?
Callie: We went to Vegas. My idea, I embrace the trashy.
Addison: That's...not that I'm not happy for you but...why? Married, so fast?
Callie: You know those cartoons where there's a bear and it's starving, and it looks at a cute intern.
Addison: Well, congratulations.
Callie: Thank you. Thank you. Oh it's small I know, it's small.
Addison: It's beautiful.
Callie: You think so?
Addison: Yes.
Callie: Yes.
(Ellis' room)
Ellis: So, tell me about yourself.
Meredith: Well...
Ellis: What's your life like? I...I really do wanna know you, Meredith.
Meredith: Well, I have a boyfriend.
Ellis: Does he understand the demands of your career? Cause not all men do. They say they do upfront but they...
Meredith: He's great. He's a doctor too, so he gets it.
Ellis: Good.
Meredith: He's actually...
Ellis: Have you chosen a specialty?
Meredith: No, it's...it's still early.
Ellis: Cristina's already chosen cardio-thoracics.
Meredith: Yeah, well, I guess I'm just waiting to be inspired. I'm happy now. I feel like I know who I am plus I think when you have someone in your life that you love, you really love, I think that's...I don't know I just...I'm really happy.
Ellis: What happened to you?
Meredith: What do you mean?
Ellis: You're happy? You're happy now? The Meredith I knew was a force of nature, passionate, focused, a fighter. What happened to you? You've gone soft. Stammering about a boyfriend and saying you're waiting to be inspired. You're waiting for inspiration? Are you kidding me? I have a disease for which there is no cure. I think that would be inspiration enough.
Meredith: Mom...
Ellis: Listen to me, Meredith. Anyone can fall in love and be blindly happy. But not everyone can pick up a scalpel and save a life. I raised you to be an extraordinary human being. So imagine my disappointment when I wake up after five years and discover that you're no more than ordinary. What happened to you?
(George is in Marina's room, drawing her blood)
Vincent: We live in the same building, so...I'd see her in the laundry room and uh, she's really sexy when she folds clothes.
(George is drawing her blood, his hand is shaking.)
Vincent: Once we started dating it was like boom. We got really serious, really fast. Now I'm just kinda like...I don't even know her middle name. Trying to fill out these forms and I'm stumped on the first question.
George: Rose. That's her middle name. Rose.
(George looks sick)
(Meredith and Derek are walking through the hall)
Meredith: She's charming, she's fabulous and then suddenly she's the enemy.
Derek: I'm meeting the enemy?
Meredith: Just don't get personal.
Derek: You're being ridiculous.
Meredith: I am not being ridiculous.
Derek: Ok, it's going to be fine.
Meredith: Just be careful, she has ways.
(He enters Ellis' room)
(George walks past Olivia in the hall)
Olivia: Hi, George.
George: Hi.
Olivia: Are you ok?
George: Yeah.
Olivia: You seem kind of shaky, and sweaty, and pale. Is it the marriage? Are you totally regretting it?
George: No, the marriage is fine. (He hands her Marina's blood) Do you mind...taking that to, uh...taking the blood work to the lab for me.
Olivia: Sure.
George: Thanks. I think I need to sit down.
Olivia: George, if you need to talk...
George: Thanks.
(Callie walks up)
Callie: Hey. Are you ok? You're sweating.
George: I'm good. What's your middle name?
Callie: It's bad. I don't tell anyone.
George: Come on. We're married and I don't even know you're middle name.
Callie: Ok, I knew it. It's your weird and judgey friends. You let them get to you.
George: No, it's...I don't...I don't know your middle name. I can't...God, I can barely breathe.
Callie: You know what, you didn't know my middle name last week and you could breathe just fine.
George: What?
(Ellis' room)
Ellis: What about a functional MRI now, while I'm lucid?
Derek: Mmm. An MRI's not gonna show us anything new. No test is gonna help us understand what's going on.
Ellis: So in five years you've made no advances and there is nothing else you can for me. I don't know how you do it. Day in and day out. Work with people with this awful disease.
Derek: Oh. Actually I'm not an Alzheimer's specialist. I just took a special interest in this case...because of Meredith.
Ellis: You're what happened to her.
Derek: I'm sorry...
Ellis: I thought you were here for me. To offer me some hope, to tell me about some new treatment, but you're here for her.
Derek: Dr. Grey.
Ellis: An attending? A neurosurgeon? No wonder she's so unfocused.
Derek: I don't think you understand...
Ellis: Oh, I understand. I understand perfectly. I've seen men like you before. Threatened by a woman that's their equal. You just want someone to admire you. And you don't care about the damage you do to her along the way.
(George enters the clinic)
George: I need to lay down.
Izzie: No, no, no. Wait, hey. Buster, do you know how much it costs to have...these linens laundered?
George: I'm sick, shaky and sweaty. My mouth is dry, my body aches.
Izzie: Fine.
Bailey: Uh, Karev, replace O'Malley in the OR.
Alex: Yes.
(Alex enters Marina's OR)
Alex: So, this is Marina Wagner, your colon cancer patient?
Richard: Karev, where the hell's O'Malley?
Alex: Curled up in a ball in the clinic.
Richard: He ok?
Alex: Uh, he's married.
Richard: Right. Ok, Boki, ten blade.
(The clinic)
Izzie: Stolen, non-emergent ER cases and a sick hospital staff. This is what eight million dollars buys you.
Bailey: Dr. Stevens, I swear on my life, if I hear you say eight million dollars one more time...
Izzie: It's not about the money. It's...it's Denny...it's his legacy. It's...I was looking for meaning. This was supposed to be meaningful.
Bailey: It will be meaningful.
Izzie: Eight million dollars worth?
(A man and his daughter enter)
Mr. Hanson: Excuse me, are you doctors? Can I...? Are you the doctor?
Bailey: Yes, we are.
Izzie: Are you a patient? Like an actual, free clinic patient?
Mr. Hanson: Not me, my daughter.
Izzie: So your daughter's sick.
Kelly: I'm not sick. Can we please go?
Mr. Hanson: Kelly...finds...suddenly...that she has a need for (he pulls out a box of tampons)...these products and uh, we were hoping that you might show her how to use them.
(George is in bed in the clinic and Olivia is nearby)
Olivia: George you're married. You should be happy, you don't look happy.
George: I'm sick, Olivia.
(Bailey is helping the lab tech into bed)
Bailey: All right...you can...you should go home O'Malley. Clearly, whatever you have is contagious.
George: Aren't you from the lab?
Lab Tech: Yeah, I feel like crap.
George: Is that the lady you gave Marina's blood to?
Olivia: Uh, yeah.
George: And you all feel shaky and nauseas?
Lab Tech: It's awful.
George: She's toxic.
Olivia: Callie, yeah. A lot of us feel that way.
George: No, the patient's blood is toxic. It's making us sick. Has the Chief started, uh, Marina's operation?
Olivia: They were wheeling her up as I came down.
George: What's the extension for OR 1?
(The scene flips to OR 1. The phone is ringing but no one is answering. The camera pans around to show at least five people on the floor. Richard and Alex are among them.)
(Outside the OR, the doctors and staff have all been removed. Derek and Burke are talking)
Derek: The patient's blood is apparently highly toxic. Any contact is dangerous. No body goes in there until we figure out what the hell is going on. (He walks toward Richard) How's he doing?
Addison: He's...but his BP's starting to stabilize. He's doing better on oxygen. It's a good thing he got out of there when he did.
(Nurse walks up)
Nurse: Dr. Shepherd.
Derek: What is it?
Nurse: Can you sign this.
(Meredith walks up)
Meredith: I just heard. How can I help?
Derek: You're off duty. You should be with your mother.
Meredith: I don't wanna spend time with my mother. The Chief is down, Alex is down. I would like to help.
Derek: Dr. Grey. You wanna help, talk to your resident.
(Derek walks over to where Burke and Mark are)
Derek: What do you got?
Burke: They found an herbal supplement in her purse. The lab guys think it combined with the chemo chemicals and turned her blood into some kind of neuro-toxin.
Mark: We're lucky they're not all dead.
Derek: The only reason she's alive is because she's intubated.
Burke: Who got them out of there?
Derek: O'Malley.
(Callie pushes past the boys to where George is on a bed)
Callie: George.
George: Callie. She was toxic. Her blood was toxic. It's not our marriage.
Callie: You thought our marriage was toxic?
Addison: (To the boys) Ok, all our people are being treated. Now, what do we do about her.
(Marina is still intubated)

(Cristina enters Ellis' room)
Cristina: Dr. Grey. Your holter monitor shows your having multiple runs of tachycardia every hour. So, Dr. Burke would like to do a radio-plation.
Ellis: Why would he recommend surgery when medication can keep it under control? Because Alzheimer's patients aren't always compliant with their meds.
Cristina: And...apparently, Meredith says, your particularly difficult.
Ellis: I could elect not to treat it at all.
Cristina: Your stress test shows coronary artery disease. That coupled with the tachy arrhythmias could cause too much stress on your heart. Which would, eventually...
Ellis: What would you do? If the thing that defines who you are, was taken away. Tell Dr. Burke...I don't want the surgery.
Cristina: I'm...I'm very sorry, Dr. Grey. But technically that decision isn't yours. It's Meredith's.
(Clinic)
Izzie: This is a maxi pad, heavy flow day. Mini pad pretty self-explanatory. Just...peel the label, and stick it. And the tampon, we've already gone over so...are we clear on everything? Kelly, I understand that...you're a little mortified that your dad dragged you in here but you can you just talk...or nod, or something.
Kelly: I get it, ok.
(Bailey enters)
Bailey: How's it going with our very first patient?
Izzie: Kelly's a woman. Can I just go to the gallery and learn something. If that's ok with you.
Bailey: Go ahead.
(Izzie leaves)
Bailey: Uh, Mr. Hanson, if you could go to the front desk and fill out some paperwork, I can get you out of there.
Mr. Hanson: Of course, of course. Thank you. Since my wife died I...I've been in the woods a little with Kelly.
(Mr. Hanson leaves)
Bailey: Are you ok, Kelly? Any cramps? Cause a heating pad...
Kelly: Could I be pregnant if I had s*x last week? Like before the period thing started. Cause I did and it would really suck if I'm pregnant. Cause now the guys being a real jerk and he's totally ignoring me at school. So, I really hope I can't be pregnant. I can't, right? Anyway, you could, like, answer me before my dad gets back.
(Ellis' room)
Meredith: I'm not sure refusing treatment is what you wanna do.
Ellis: Apparently what I want doesn't matter. It isn't even legally binding. So it's really about what you want, Meredith. You're in charge.
Meredith: Do you think I like making these decisions for you? Do you think it's fun to get calls from the nursing home asking me whether I was planning on giving the nurse, who changes you every morning, a Christmas tip? But I do it, because you have managed to alienate every one else in your life. And I am the only one, so I have to step up and do it. You wanna know why I'm so unfocused, so ordinary? You wanna know what happened to me? You! You happened to me.
Ellis: Then let me refuse the surgery.
Meredith: No!
Ellis: Why not?
Meredith: Because killing my mother is not gonna be another thing that happens to me.
(Meredith storms out and slams the door)
(Burke and Derek are putting on special suits)
Derek: These suits are airtight.
Burke: Yeah, these packs circulate the air inside.
Mark: These batteries haven't been charging long. I'm guessing you've got about 30 minutes before they die and you have to come out.
Addison: Oh, my God. The anesthesia's wearing off. She's waking up.
Mark: Thirty minutes starting now.
Addison: She's fighting intubation.
Burke: We go inside before these seals are secure, we wouldn't last five minutes and she will die.
Mark: These guys are two minutes out.
Addison: She doesn't have two minutes.
Mark: Addison
(Addison grabs a mask and rushes into the OR, Marina is fighting the intubation.)
Mark: Get the hell out of there.
Addison: She's awake, Mark. She's awake and open on the table. I need to know her weight so I can dose her with the propocal.
Mark: She looks about 60 kilos.
Addison: It's ok. You're ok. It's ok. Got it.
(Addison looks sick and rushes towards the door. She knocks things over on her way out and Mark catches her as she collapses at the door)
Mark: I gotcha, I gotcha.
(Derek and Burke enter the OR)
(Ellis' room, her monitor is beeping)
Nurse: Looks like SVT.
Cristina: Push 10 of adenocine and page Dr. Burke.
Nurse: He's already gone into surgery. I'll get the adenocine.
Ellis: Carotid massage. Do the carotid massage.
Cristina: Carotid massage can regulate the heart and stop SVT. Ok, hold on. Hold on. Hold on please. Hold on, hold on. Ok. Ok, ok, ok, ok.
Ellis: You're good. Sharp under pressure. You'll make an extraordinary surgeon.
Cristina: Dr. Grey, I need to ask you. Will it get in my way? Can I have both. Can I be a great surgeon and have a life? Cause there is this great man who just asked me to marry him and I know you tried to have both and you split up with Meredith's dad and I know this is none of my business.
Ellis: It is none of your business. And I didn't try hard enough.
Cristina: Thank you.
(Richard is outside the OR)
Meredith: Are you feeling better?
Richard: I will be once my patient is off the table. Look at these two, a heart surgeon and a neurosurgeon performing a bowel resection. You think the world stops when you stop but it just keeps on going. People perform your surgeries better than you could. The next generation comes up and you're scared you'll be forgotten. Your mother stopped for five years and you became someone.
Meredith: According to her I didn't. According to her I'm a disappointment.
Richard: In a perfect would she'd be able to tell you she was proud of you. But it's not a perfect world. And your mothers not a perfect woman.
Meredith: I think the person she'd most like to see right now is you.
Richard: The only thing your mother wants to hear right now is that I regret staying with Adele. It's the only gift I could give her. And I can't tell her that. That's not true.
(Inside Marina's OR)
Burke: They won't fit.
Richard: Stop right there. The bowels swelled, they won't fit. How much time do you have?
Mark: Eight minutes.
Richard: Ok, listen to me. And do everything I say.
(Kelly's room in the clinic)
Bailey: Kelly, your pregnancy test is negative and you're clean for STD's.
Mr. Hanson: Oh, thank God.
Kelly: Great! Thanks to you I'm grounded for the rest of my life.
Mr. Hanson: Kelly, be polite.
Bailey: I'm sorry, sir. But polite doesn't seem to be getting you to very far. Kelly, you're dad told me you lost your mother a few years ago and I want to say how sorry I am. I'm sure you have a million questions and I'm sure if you're mother were here she would have more eloquent answers than I do but her and I would actually be saying the same thing. Which is, if you keep going the way you're going, you will get an STD. You will get pregnant. You will increase your chances of getting cervical cancer. You're not being smart and you're too young for anyone to expect you to be smart the way you need to be when you're having s*x. Which means you're too young to be having it.
Kelly: I thought he liked me.
Bailey: Oh honey, I know you did. I know you did.
(Kelly starts crying and Mr. Hanson hugs her)
(Callie walks over to George)
Callie: Ok, you're gonna live.
George: Callie, wait. I was a little bit heroic in there. I thought you'd be proud of me.
Callie: Proud? You were poisoned and you thought it was about me.
George: It felt like an anxiety attack.
Callie: About me. You see we were fine when we were in our Vegas bubble. When it was just room service and pay cable and us. It was all bliss but then you get around your weird and judgey friends for one day and suddenly your wracked with uncertainty. Toxic gas level uncertainty. I guess it was too much to just hope you'd stand up for me.
George: Callie.
Callie: And my middle name is Iphegenia. Ok? I can't wait to hear what your pals have to say about that.
(Alex is being examined, Addison is watching him)
Alex: So that was pretty cool, what you just did. Go in and putting her back under.
Addison: Cool or stupid? Take your pick.
(They share a moment)
Addison: Ok, all right, I gotta go.
(Gallery of Marina's OR)
Izzie: What's going on?
Meredith: Chief figured out the anesthesiologist didn't have time to drop an NG tube so now they have to place one and decompress and repack her intestines and close. And they're about to run out of air.
Izzie: Holy crap! This so beats Tampon training.
(Richard and Mark are in the gallery)
Richard: Preston, you'll need to milk the bowel to get out the excess fluid. Pack her and wrap her and get her stable for transport.
(Derek looks sick)
Meredith: How's George?
Izzie: Medically, he's fine. Emotionally, he's a little stunted if you ask me. You don't marry the rebound girl, am I right?
Cristina: You don't marry anyone on a whim.
Meredith: He needs our support.
Izzie: He doesn't need us. He's got his Vegas show wife.
Cristina: Oh.
Mark: Chief they're at 32 minutes, you gotta pull them out
Richard: How you doing on air?
(Burke looks sick as well)
Burke: I'm out.
Derek: You go. I'll be right there...
Burke: Alone? You can't.
(Burke passes out, Derek tries to help him and passes out as well.)
Cristina: That's not good.
(Scrub room, Richard has already done in to pull Derek and Burke out. Izzie, Cristina and Meredith are scrubbed in)
Richard: Ok, damage control. We still have to pack her and wrap her so that she's stable for transport. We work in shifts. One doctor at a time, no one stays in for more than 20 seconds. Dr. Sloan do you want to go first?
Mark: I'm not going in there.
Richard: What?
Mark: It would be irresponsible for the remaining healthy attending to expose himself to the neuro-toxin. A neuro-toxin whose long-term effects we're still unaware of. So, I'm staying in here.
Cristina: I can swim three lengths of my parents pool underwater.
Richard: All right, you're up Dr. Yang. Let's get her masked. Sloan give her the lap pads. You're gonna wet them and pack the cavity. (Cristina enters the OR) If you feel faint get out. Come on Yang, hurry. (Cristina exits)
Cristina: I packed the wound.
Richard: Dr. Stevens,
Cristina: I couldn't get...I couldn't...
Richard: Remove the drape and secure the plastic along the sides. It's gotta be tight. (Izzie enters) Hurry. Come on Stevens. Come on. (Izzie leaves)
Izzie: I couldn't...the seal it twisted.
Richard: Ok, the seal needs to be as close to airtight as possible. It'll inflate and then you'll know it's secure. (Meredith enters) Come on Grey. Come on.
(The seal inflates)
(Outside Marina's room)
Vincent: She's still toxic?
George: She's on CRRT. It's a type of dialysis to remove toxins from the blood. You should be able to go in, in a few hours.
(Marina wakes up)
Vincent: (On the intercom) You woke up. You're gonna be ok.
Marina: I was hoping you would never have to know about any this. I thought all the bad stuff in my life was over when I met you.
Vincent: It is Marina Rose.
Marina: That's my name.
(Richard is in the ER talking with the doctors)
Richard: Heroic work all of you, heroic. Dr. Sloan lets check on our patient.
(Mark and Richard walk away)
Derek: How come we do all the work and he gets all the glory?
Addison: Because he's Mark.
(Clinic, Izzie enters)
Izzie: I'm sorry I left. I...it was...I got to do damage control on the toxic woman.
Bailey: Good for you.
Izzie: You ever get any patients?
Bailey: Just that one.
Izzie: One.
Bailey: Eight million dollars worth of one. Lock up for me.
(Ellis' room. Richard enters)
Richard: I heard you're having surgery tomorrow.
Ellis: Do you...do I know who Meredith is? Do I at least recognize Meredith?
Richard: You know she's someone important. Someone who loves you.
Ellis: You look out for her, cause she's got so much more to learn and I won't be able to teach her.
Richard: I'll look out for her.
Ellis: I wish I could go back. I'd do everything so differently. I'd fighter harder for you. I think if I'd fought for you...
Richard: We would have had a wonderful life together Ellis.
Ellis: You think so?
Richard: I do. We would have done our fellowship here. And then you would have fought me for chief and probably one and I wouldn't have minded cause we'd have kids at home.
Ellis: We have kids?
Richard: Meredith would have needed a brother and sister. Kids need family.
Ellis: We would have been a family.
Richard: Probably bought that big house on Parker, the one with the barn. That's a good place for a family.
Ellis: And I would have been happy just like Meredith says she's happy. And that would have changed everything. Maybe...I would be fine and we could grow old together and life would be so perfectly ordinary.
Richard: Yeah.
Ellis: My life is so unfinished. It's unfinished and I'm unfinished.
Richard: No, Ellis. Don't think that. Just close your eyes and think of the family, of the house.
Ellis: And you there every night to come home to.
Richard: And me there. I'm there.
(Locker room)
Cristina: I'm super scrubbed. I'm minus my epidermis.
Meredith: I still feel all fumey.
(Callie enters)
Izzie: Hey. It's the little women. So what are your plans now? You're not moving in are you?
Callie: Nice.
George: Wait, Callie.
Callie: No, it's...
George: Wait. (To Izzie) Unbelievable. You people. You're supposed to be my friends, my closest friends. Callie is an important part of my life now. If you want to drive her away and your masters at it, you'll do it. But if she's gone I'm gone. She's my wife. Calliope Iphegenia Torres is my wife.
(Izzie starts to laugh)
George: Don't you dare.
Izzie: Ok.
(Seattle scenes)
MVO: As doctors, we're trained to give our patients just the facts. But what are patients really want to know is. Will the pain ever go away? Will I feel better? Am I cured?
(Addison and Mark are having s*x in a darkened hotel room)
Mark: I thought you said you didn't think about me.
Addison: I don't. I am actively not thinking about you, right now.
MVO: What are patients really want to know is...
(Cristina is laying her bed, she walks to the kitchen where Burke is)
MVO: ...is their hope.
Cristina: I don't do rings.
(She sets the ring on the counter)
Cristina: Don't expect me to suddenly change. I'm a surgeon just like you. And we'll have money, we can hire a wife.
Burke: Are you saying yes?
Cristina: Yeah.
Burke: I'm not letting you scrub in tomorrow.
Cristina: Well, I'm not wearing the ring.
Burke: Ok.
Cristina: Ok, then.
(They hug and start cheering and laughing)
Burke: Yes! Ok, ok, ok!
(Meredith is at her mom's room)
MVO: But inevitably there are times when you find yourself in the worst-case scenario.
Richard: Meredith...
Meredith: I just have to say this. The reason I want you to have the surgery is because I have this hope that in a year or two years or five, they're gonna have a breakthrough. They're gonna find a cure for Alzheimer's and you and I will have another chance, to get to know each other. You will have a chance to get to know me, to see that I am not even remotely ordinary. So, I wish you would have the surgery But it's up to you, Mom. It's your life.
Ellis: You remind me of my daughter.
Richard: About an hour ago. One minute she was here, the next...I'm so sorry.
Meredith: Me too.
MVO: When the patient's body has betrayed them and all the science we have to offer has failed them. When the worst-case scenario comes true, clinging to hope is all we have left.Embed