1 ContributorK-Shine vs. Eazy The Block Captain Lyrics
They said, "The streak is over."
I said, "I'm gonna start another one."
It's a whole new game...and this shit's startin' on easy (Eazy)
A lot of sneak dissin', it's gon' be a long year, like Jeezy
Trust me, I got all these nigga's number, like Beasley
You think you some type of gangsta cause you did a bid
Boy I know a nigga who did 15 years for armed robbery and that nigga's a bitch!
Don't get up here and tell me no stupid shit that you did as a kid
You know what's a struggle?
Gettin' the drop on a nigga who tried to hit you and miss
Boy that shit had me talkin' to my gun plug like his grandmom
"Get out there and get me a switch!"
Stick on the grip make dawg flip like Kibbles & Bits
I take ya wig and lay it out Eazy like, "it's as simple as this"
Aye straight to the point
These ain't setups
One down on ya team if I see they steppers
Switch blade on ya neck 'til I see they severed
Then I'm cuttin' behind Eazy like I'm DJ Yella
We play never
Niggas even dyin' off the warnin' shots
I try to tell 'em, "The world is so much bigger than the hood. We gon' off The Block."
On ya drop, rounds through the glass, like a coffee shop
A whole bunch of blood and Eaz' (ease) in the tub like the water's hot
Is this the Block Captain then all you niggas bitches
And I will load up base on any corner that you pitchin'
Tie you in a truck, toss you into ditches
Take Eaz' (ease) on down the road like we off to see the wizard
Who you kiddin'?
You just another cat that battle
Nigga knife on the chopper, I'll clap and stab you
You even talk about a gun, I'll take your gat and blast you
You ain't a pirate, I don't wanna hear Jack about a Captain's barrel
Boy listen, it can really go from normal surgeon to mortician
I can really make that hospital chart "talk different"
Compressor like we always together, I won't miss him
And a Special with a unique talent like autism
Let me talk to him, he like to talk
I know you broker, but I'm about to put you in your place
Hieroglyphics and find a half moon on a K
It could've been anybody, I did't care who was to play
I was so eager for a murder (Murda), "I heard Eazy (Easy)" and almost shot Mook by mistake
Aye, where you stayin'? Where you from?
You might also like
From Philly

From Philly? I'm tryin' to find out 'bout the grams y'all keep
We gon' line E up like a scantron sheet
Stupid, rookie, long distance with the scope, it ain't a chance y'all leave
Nobody got this kind of Range like Cam'Ron Jeep
Boy you weak
You joined Gun Titles? What's the cause?
I see you goin' Live thinkin' you gettin' off
You push they brand instead of yours
You a worker, not a boss
You think Surf gon' hold you down? Stupid!
He got his own problems, you better watch who hit the floor
I'll open up Eazy with the Wave, like an automatic door
You a whore, but it can get worse if you want
A lick of that Philly talk, you get turned to a blunt
Pallbearers walking him out to that hearse in the front
With his mama huggin' The Block like it's the first of the month
What you want pussy?!
I can act like sensitive skin and bruise easy (Eazy)
Or put you in a box on stage like Houdini
Knife, cut you in half, that's too easy (two Eazy)
They gon' have to bring The Goonies back to glue Eazy (Glueazy)
Zip 'Em Up!
Cali what up?
The Block Captain finally made it nigga
Who know who I-
Fuck that, let's
(Get straight to these payments nigga!)
I actually got nothin' bad to say about K-Shine
Besides you a pussy
Yeah nigga you know what type of battle this is nigga hold up
I ain't the nigga to get your shit back on, you better slow up
It hurt killin' y'all Smack Era niggas cause we got to watch y'all bitch ass niggas grow up
From a dirty nigga who got some shine as you blown up
ESPN fire, 2 on 2's you had NWX sewn up
Now this some hatin' shit, tryin' to take ya bitch, I'm actually glad y'all niggas broke up
The monster woke up
On 'Top Tier' nigga what I told ya?
That bark ain't special now and what you showed us?
Why you actin' like stompin' in this kitchen can't fuck ya dough (doe) up?
I was here when the only love they had was Arizona
Kids don't even wanna pick a Professor, Shine, they just wanna be in love when they grow up
No fuck that
I really will kill one of y'all niggas and you don't want that
I'm a renaissance nigga, try to expose me, I'll shine a light on the subject
I didn't even wanna check you
I heard you let them Blood niggas to protect you for lettin' them he/she's bless you
Maybe that's why DNA left you
Writin' for niggas is a second power, shit I would've left the X too
Type of my gangsta? You couldn't be
Gun Titles? Shouldn't be
Needed a strap, Surf said I had way too many known charges so I couldn't speak
Roc shit legal so if I wanted you dead we couldn't meet
Slid to the X, Chess old school so he passed me a wooden piece
Nigga we accurate when we shoot
We only awake to see if he got hit dawg, Fast Furious I mean Tokyo, I drift off
I'm in New York, can't find him, he happy as shit, I gave him hope like the Knicks dawg
Halle Berry bringin' John Wick to see the plug, y'all know what happened to the big dog
Aye Big Dawg!
You level one ass boss, put Shine in the wall, paint over it, it's semigloss
Nigga married, to the game, found a way to do it within law
Fish scales, laxative, the shit soft
Wanna cook it? Hardware at the door, extra fee to install
I am not y'all
Sunglasses when I shoot, shit I'm blocked off
Playstation Network, I signed up for the opp dawg
It's not one bitch bone in my body don't ask if I'll pop off
If evidence acquired, it's a DoorDash, it's a picture sent after the drop off
I'm in ya Dojo
Solo
Somewhere he thinkin' I won't go
Bro we steam press R.I.P. signs like they logos
If I hear that you said it, even if you didn't say it, that's still a no no
I don't care if that part is cloudy, I'm gonna make sure Shine don't show
Nigga do you know what I'll do to you?
I just start respectin' life at 30, learned a lot at 29 when I was a Looney Toon
Nigga the pistol come out then it's mad danger
Knife come out, then I'm past anger
Throat cut, they tryin' to identify his voice like The Masked Singer
Nigga you lucky I'm not the old me
I'll be in all black nigga gettin' lowkey
Cause you a Greyhound mega gas money $25 toll fee
To get there nigga
Go 'head and get tight
You the bitch type
Pussy ass nigga that pick fights
I get close to Shine, I got insight
Went to court in a suit, came home having pinstripes
Rob Shine, give it to a fan, I'll make the 
Nigga ya name tarnished
Detergent couldn't even wash them stains
Ya bitch involved? Well she'll get off since y'all wanna play that game
I'm in the crib, any bitch with a red bandana gonna be the First Lady Flamed
Battle rap is the streets, it's not one person that can change that game
I seen a nigga get on the stand, tell, and still get 20
The first person to ever paid for a name
Nigga let's keep it real
Grindin' with soft cotton niggas that was in the field
It didn't count that I almost got to a point like a scrimmage drill
While you and DNA was goin' half on cars, I was in prison still
That was four life insurance plans so my kids don't gotta split a will
Flash back, sand in bags rewind time, Prince Of Persia
Fast forward, prince emerging
Fast forward, Bic flick flick
If "lost your flame" was a person
You steal a nigga style, you wanna steal when your still style ain't workin'
Y'all think he come back as new Shine when he refurbished
I'm talkin' Final Destination, accidents get done on purpose
I'm talkin' landlord shit, October 1st my heater's worker
I promise you, we livin' in a different circle
I promise you, gettin' beat up is universal
I promise you, when your mom is the plug and strip it be hurtful
You gotta figure out  or go in by curfew
Nigga it get real slime, go to war with us, you better kill mine
Fuck the work you put in, Mandela, you put in all them years and still die
Nigga I will punch the fuck out you
I'm talkin' female empowerment, nigga I will still (steal) Shine
I got no reason to impress none of y'all niggas, I don't lie
I done stepped on coke to stress the supply
Oregano when the reggie was live
Even diluted PCP, if God could walk on water nigga so can I!
I just feel like I'm better than all you niggas
Beat Rex, Mook duck, I'm lookin' like Jada to these Harlem niggas
It's Gutta
He like to talk, right?
He like to talk, right?
He don't know I been doin' this shit way before him, right
You ever have your day one give yo' name to police?
{K-Shine yells to the crowd to shut up}
You ever have your day one give yo' name to police?
You ever ended up the only nigga in a situation and it start as a team?
It wasn't even a lot of us, we was slidin' as three
Somehow we ended up two niggas namin' one like EPMD
It's different
I get booked, them niggas out there chiefin' it free
I ended up with a couple F's for tryin' to keepin' it G
You get the picture? It's as simple as simple can be
Basically, it was never easy (Eazy) for me
Nigga, before I had a gun I had to be in the street
With just a star and flag like I'm Vietnamese
We gettin' money now, you too, you and your boo boo be on the beach
I will still hold the Captain head underwater 'til he a Marine
Whatchu think? I'm the underdog, I'm the one that got a lot to prove
This fake hustler
You don't know the difference stocks and views
Nigga I done pumped Smack and sold valium (Volume), even when they had us locked in rooms
Even right now, I am makin' more off the Block than you
Get Roc here too
That nigga battled in a tux
You gon' have to rock it too
I get to huntin' y'all niggas, you gon' think I hate Goldberg
I ain't sparin' none of y'all niggas
I'ma have everybody cryin'
I'll catch one of y'all lackin'
Like one of y'all tie him, make one of y'all stab him
I'll be playin' with the scope
I'm always talkin' scope, I'm in love with that attachment
My eye be so far in the lens I can  the Captain
You be cappin'
But one thing I respect, is how you got your spot
But one thing I'll never get is why you got wit' Roc
Your name make sense cause you could've climbed the top
But puttin' any thought of bein' "The Captain" inside a Block
He turned you to a baby bat, dropped your stock
From battle rapper to bird like Papa Doc
This the big dawg, little pussy y'all forgot?
I left Chess (chest) wheezy (Weezy), not it's time to do a hit while The Block Is Hot
Hot, hot, hot, to the crib, had to them niggas shady
I had to mention Weezy F cause I won't forget The Baby
He think he gonna play me, not today
You must be talkin' 'bout them teeth you say you got da K (decay)
Target acquired {chk chk} locked away
I can take Eazy to the next level, I might be Dr. Dre
I heard  was your founder and clique
I find it odd how the Captain ain't go down with his ship
They put you down and you switch
You don't even rep them niggas
Everybody was screamin' "Gutta" and you left 'em in it
Neglectful isn't it?
You left your niggas in the Gutta gutter?
Damn, Young Money I'm talkin' Gudda Gudda
Left another cutter, slide through the left drop out the Gutta gutter
Slide in another, slide in another
Y'all thinkin' "inappropriate", I was puttin' mines (minds) in the Gutta (gutter)
You a sucka, what you seen?
I done been through car chases, wire taps and a couple home searches
I really had to tell my niggas "talk different" cause we was on the phone nervous
The shit you talk about, get everybody in ya zone murdered
Then he get stretched, that's BMF
That means we trap Eazy by puttin' Roc in a bag like a stone burger
Nigga you can't fuck wit' me on whatever day
I'm bringin' cals (cows) to the strip like pepper steak
It's like a difficult sentence when you prep the game
Cause I've been past easy (Eazy) level on my second stage

Bro I got no problem calling you a living legend
But you just gotta understand is I'm a livin' lesson
Me just bein' here is a blessin'
Bro I was reckless
Battle what plug I should go see next with preference
And handcuffs was my exit
My lawyer came in said, "Shh. Control the room." on some vet shit
I had to reset shit
Need to get back so a strap is what I was left with
Basically if you did meet me back then I was a six foot nigga with a death wish
Nigga you so hype you gotta slow down
Stop thinkin' with your emotions, wait until your anxiety go down
That shit seemed cute until you meet a nigga that's on go now
Then his AirPod exceed audio exposure, watch his volume get turned down
Nigga the hood mine
You one battle away from not even being polished, they wanna see a good Shine
Nigga you so fuckin' scary, what's up then?
All that chest pokin' that was an invitation to come in
I think you pussy, they think you G
That's bifocals, we see two different visions with one lens
Let's thinkin' you wit' it nigga
Can't take your losses as a man cause a bitter nigga
They see "Eazy vs. Shine" on paper, it's for the glitter nigga
I'll shoot him or stab him, I will alternate end this nigga
Rex, Mook, Shine, we so advanced in this trap shit, it's a win my nigga
Smack texted me then erased it, I still knew that was three Dots I had to send my nigga
You said  every 2 on 2 and I don't condone it
Start losin', try to throw fists
Only  on material, come back and try to beat 'em with they own shit
He's so cocky they don't even notice
They lack expensive ass niggas that's broken
Smack start puttin' y'all errands where we can smoke 'em
Bro I'm suicidal
I was on court swearin' on shit like I knew the Bible
Young child to his step pops Shine, we grew to like you
Save all that rah rah shit for them cause I know you be dead frontin'
Top tier niggas I'm headhuntin'
2K shooter still I'll press a square button
Nigga why was y'all comin' at this nigga?
When he was bitin' he was fightin'
Y'all made it seem like it was awful
I'm a nigga, I knew you had to do what you do to get him off you
But the funny part is in that whole situation, you still lost too
And since it's battle rap, we don't have to argue
Ain't no need for you to draw four, I don't know how to play Uno pussy, I draw two (too)
Play with Eazy money
I won't be performin', this will be a walk-through
Yellow tape to bring the chalk through
A small nigga goin' to need a medium to talk through
I will literally prepared to be in court for years like a lawsuit
You know that Pat Stay battle cost you
We gassed you up so much on that win streak that Chilla offed you
Hollow battle made it seem like you was overrated unless we argue
I feel like you sound like DNA/T-Rex/Twork, you don't even who are you?
Then I went back like, ho, I know we didn't overhype this nigga
He was lowkey dyin' out before DNA wifed you nigga
Beef with niggas who don't wanna beef, that's why I don't like you nigga
So chill out cause I'm indecisive nigga
I don't know if today is the day I feel like bein' righteous nigga
Plus I do not wanna almost fight the almost fightin' niggas
So save all that tough shit
That's fuck shit
I'll really leave watermarks, then body Shine with the machine for all that buff shit
Can we say that you original?
I mean, typical
The corny in you nigga is visible
You bite me that's the last time you gettin' physical
It'll be criminal
My pups can't tell time, so all the clocks in the trap house is digital
Let's talk about you sayin' you don't like them transformer niggas
Bullshit!
Bullshit!
Excuse bro. Excuse me
Bullshit!
Nigga you gay for real
Some of that shit you into wouldn't even fit my bill
I'm sure you had kids before that tranny rumor, how you didn't inquire about a gender reveal?
Go 'head and get mad
They hype you up, I think you been trash
I'll smack the curious out ya bitch ass
Go ask staff, they want they ball back
Like I don't got a hall pass
Why y'all think the New Era and they teachers got they eyes on me?
Cause I walked in the wrong class
Nigga it's separation
The cable got given for decoration
You're an amateur
You don't know if they was tryin' to remember you or 
You wanted to be the one so bad you started to sound like Mr. Anderson
Nigga it's a disgrace
They kicked me down for what my sin say
If I get outta pocket, I won't be remembered by end day
So if I up my .40 I'm out the game
And all that means is that my bench play
Philly don't have to watch Korean movies to still day by playin' kids games
Get your noodle cooked and 
Somebody tell Verb vegans can be fiends too because the cocoa leaf is plant based
You went on an Avenger win streak and you still ain't considered the End Game
That's Gutta man

Yo I was lookin' for an angle that was decent for you
Quiet, but I might need a little crowd participation, but then again, I wouldn't care if there was a peep in the room
Domestic violence and women abuse
Nah, that's an angle that's gon' leave y'all confused
So I'ma just say, "Niggas hit bitches...because that's easy (Eazy) to do (Du)"
Hey you
Angry dude
Why don't you hit us with the details?
Nobody really touch on that subject like sendin' out an email
You had us like, "Daaaamn Debo. Nigga that's a female!"
It's crazy how I used that line about Craig but that was Ezel (E's L)
The fighter!
Nigga you turned into Floyd Mayweather, like, "I ain't takin' any L's"
Soon as she showed (shoulder) Block he came right up out that Philly shell
Now I know, bitches be havin' twerk videos in they phone
But yo' bitch...had an actual Twork video in her phone
You not supposed to take nothin' from at work...since you gotta go
But yo' bitch gonna fuck a bitch from where you work at home!
I guess he can be the Captain in battle rap, but it don't work, at home
You better do the same exact thing to any nigga that try you
You ain't even put a ring on it and you went right across your eye dude (I do)
This guy's a joke
He the Captain but his bitch out there drivin' a boat
Slide wit' the scope
Shoot every feather outta ya coat
Red dot on ya top like the files remote
Who we got?
Another Cave Gang nigga with a death wish?
TEC spit
Boy you get nailed with the shot
Then it's P.A.L., I'll put 12 in a Block
Extendo, with a couple extra shells in the stock
You goin' off the hook Eazy, like you in well with the cops
Switchin' the ride, like the plates is hot
Lebron James in his prime, we gon' chase the Block
Hop out, leave the door open, take the Block
Point it on this nigga easy (Eazy), like a racist cop
Carlton hatin' on Will, take the shot
He lay in shock, he don't know if he safe or not
Mortal Kombat test your might, I be pushin' every button until I break the Block
You fakin' Ahk
You can't tell me nothin' bout what these street shit 'bout
Nigga my first kite, I felt like Cortez, I just wanted to thank somebody for reaching out
Nigga we had to go to school or hoop and I wasn't takin' either route
So I was shootin' people on the court like Caffeine at Chris Breezy house
What Eazy 'bout?
I know what Eazy 'bout
Call yourself "Eazy" cause you take the easy route
Like, you let your baby mama go down for your gun?
This nigga greasy
Child support to take care of your own son?
This nigga cheap cheap
Y'all seen what he did to little Du
You won't believe me
I guess the sayings true
Pimpin' just ain't easy (Eazy)
Nigga you wasn't controllin' no blocks
You probably take your kids sneaker money to go and see Roc
I can see it now, she lookin' through the stash like, "I know he did not."
Dickhead on Instagram like "Gun Titles whatup?"
Nigga that's a Juice shot, 2Pac, 'Hit 'Em Up'
Get ya crew shot wit' an oowop, pick him up
NWX, the rest you niggas suck
Y'all know-
{K-Shine puts his hand out and pulls it back when Eazy puts his hand out}
Psych!
Zip 'Em Out
Nigga they put Chess in front of you and you blew it
They put a Chess in front of me and I ran through it
Smack said, "Get back in yo' bag. I need the shooters."
He know killin' at easy (Eazy), but somebody had to do it

Ayo, I wondered what I would write for you
And then I figured, y'all niggas spoiled, so why not enlighten you?
I understand that y'all niggas is the blueprint, but this competition we don't gotta get hype for you
The type of respect y'all want is dick eatin' and that's not the type I do
Y'all separated the Smack Era and the New Era like a hyphen do
The same game that gave y'all life y'all made that y'all gotta breathe life into
Y'all see a nigga get hot then give props, how nice of you
I guess that's life for you
That's why I talk to y'all vet niggas the way I like to do
I slide up like it's electric but I can do twice the moves
It's time outs before that dead kickin' if we icing you
 when he went over to the strays, big dawg start bitin' you
These niggas ass now, they can't hide it
Fuck rank if the loyalty one sided
The ARMY not the only one that can make the Captain become private
Nigga fuck timin'
You don't want violence? Fifth in the car I'm drunk drivin'
Catch Shine jewelry shoppin', it's extra now cause they Blood diamonds
They send y'all contracts they send me death certificates, I just sign it
DNA let a Dot in his circle now they divided
Talkin' 'bout, "We don't got time to be a team no more." Nigga I don't buy it
Y'all still had Don, Fonz, Bankhead, but y'all broke the whole shit up knowin' you don't have other niggas ridin'
So not only is y'all selfish y'all conniving
Then this nigga went on Caffeine, YouTube, Twitter so I know it wasn't supposed to be private
This dickhead lost a couple battles and went silent
Fans start shootin' at the stars I was r-
Bro what the fuck happened to y'all niggas?
I know the drill buol
Start recruitin' bum ass niggas to NWX so y'all can feel on
The foundation was fucked up cause y'all was built wrong
Adderall when I shoot, the percs in that, I'm in peel form
One shot, blood drop, make y'all scatter like the virus airborne
I noticed that they ain't groom him right
If the target hit Bluetooth pairing that mean I'm lookin' for a new device
It's dark days Shine
Just a switch you don't know what I'd do for light
I did everything but prove them right
Stones on the foil like it's hookah night
If the grade changed then I tutored right
Maneuvered right
See ya op lackin', got somethin' to prove tonight
If it's too many shots for us, it's an Uber night
Nigga it get real there
Gun in his mouth, cup of water, lift up the tongue, I'll still peel (pill) there
No heat, and the hangout spots where we get chills there
I'll smack a bitch, Zeus network I'm with all that ratchet shit
These shots, accurate as shit
J2 over the pot, snappin' with the wrists
Any thoughts of harmin' me, gotta be Marvel, what if the Captain was a bitch?
All that aggressive shit gon get you checked
Like T-Top get you choked out if you Flex
Nigga I think it was better when you was screamin' "Get that nigga Rex!"
But save that
These "I was here first" ass niggas
You better step to me
Go to Harlem tell Mook he don't come back until he check with me
You think movin' around all hype make the bar less shitty?
Nigga we follow mob rules, take this ride to get next to me
Then it's headshot, chasin' his dream, they'll find Shine in the next city
Nigga I'll make you hate life
I took elbows under the table like I was raised right
Two .9's from different households and they don't play nice
Nigga I'll follow you, you know who it is
License plate say "PA", right? Pull over, put Shine in the trunk, while I break lights
I'll leave traces of the dead
Investigation come to mention Twitter, a lot of Spaces in my head
Y'all got to understand, I built this shit from the ground up
Beas' like, "E don't get him wound up."
I said, "Or what nigga? I was ready for karma when they found us."
You know the difference between me and you?
Nigga it ain't hard
Nigga you gay, I'm not, nigga it's a lesson in every bar
You need to understand less is more
You gotta come from the bottom to respect the floor
Nigga the beds from Wal-Mart was our dresser drawers
Nigga and it was more, and I ain't change it
Make it real life as a punchline ain't basic
Me and bro shared shoes, mom put a line on the sneakers like Asics
Nigga it's a lesson in every bar
I do the crime by myself so another nigga don't gotta bite the biscuit
So another nigga don't get scared straight and turn right to witness
So the only slogan I ever took from you was havin' a co-d was one of my worst life decisions
Nigga I still see y'all shinin' on the 'Gram, these niggas don't get it
Now I gotta pay a social media visit
Y'all think I'm bullyin' I'm just followin' these niggas that's recommended
Bro I tried to give him empathy
Respect the op more if they declared they self the enemy
Hallmark, all this soft writin' y'all put on these cards and we ain't showin' y'all no sympathy
Nigga the judge gave me scrutiny
I got worried 'bout the nigga next to me shootin' me
So now-a-days I don't play with the op or opportunity
Closed casket was the arrangement nigga
Take my ass back to Philly he can't afford these payments nigga
It's GuttaEmbed