1 ContributorCitations for research paper LyricsSECONDARY:
Yacasua, L.T. "Morality" Phi Delta Kappan 55.9 (1974): 608-610. Print.
"The shift from the physical to the ideational domination of man by man took place over so immense a span that the animal origins of such domination were superseded by an ambiguous symbolism long before the biological function of dominance was understood. In consequence generation after generation came increasingly under the domination of words and ideas whose origins and purposes were unknown, and whose relevance to the life process became increasingly tenuous at best."

Wyatt, Edith. "Two Woodsman." The North American Review 204.730 (1916): 430-438. Print.
"Stevenson was I think, both fascinated and repelled by Thoreau because of contradictory elements in his own response to existence."

Foerster, Norman. "Thoreau as Artist" The Sewanee Review 29.1 (1921): 5-12. Print.
"The first and last impression produced by Thoreau's prose is it's sincerity, it's unflinching truth. It is faithfully idiosyncratic the mirror of his sincerity of character. "I would rather sit on a pumpkin and have it all to myself than be crowded on a velvet cushion."-- who but Thoreau could have written that?"
Mackintire, William Salker. "Nietzsche's Moral Aim." International Journal of Ethics 25.2 (1915): 226-232. Print.
"I may say by way of anticipation that it is a mistake to suppose that Nietzsche was by temperament and instinct a radical -- traces of a certain natural conservatism are to be found in his writings"
Carus, Paul. "Friedrich Nietzsche" The Monist 17.2 (1907): 230-238. Print.
"Nietzsche appeals to the pride of sovereignty, of irresponsibility, of absolute independence. No order should be respected, no God, no superior, no law, not even logic or truth."
PRIMARY:
Nietzsche, Friedrich. "Morality as Anti-Nature" A World of Ideas Lee, Jacobus. Boston New York, Bedford St. Martin 2013 (349) Print.
"The price of fruitfulness is to be rich in internal opposition; one remains young only as long as the soul does not stretch itself and desire peace."

Thoreau, Henry David. "Ethics and Morality" A World of Ideas Lee, Jacobus. Boston New York, Bedford St. Martin 2013 (310-11) Print.
"It is not a man's duty, as a matter of course, to devote himself to the eradication of any, even the most enormous wrong; he may still properly have other concerns to engage him; but it is his duty, at least, to wash his hands of it and, if he gives it no thought longer, not to give it practically his support."Embed