5 ContributorsFind A Way Lyrics
Yeah, yeah
Uh huh
Yeah, yeah
Find it, find it
Uh huh

Tell me why
Do I get high off the naid?
Relieve from all the bodies, that I see being sprayed
Then lay
Police tryin' to wash me like Cascade
Getting played, never paid
They'll make you like renegades
When I roll, niggas know
That I come lethal
Even though we peoples it will never become peaceful
On this planet, you don't understand it
'Til they decease your whole generation
Now you nervous amid anticipation?
And waitin' til the day
We find a way that's better
Cause most Niggas don't know, we gettin' read like love letters
Or books
The real Ballaz n' Crooks:
Loud behind the scenes while they watchin us young niggas juk
It took a little more than love
But I'm gettin' above all that madness and sadness
To the status of livin' lavish because I got to have it
Like N.O.G., and hopefully
I'll find a way to the pay, instead of rest in peace and never cease!
You might also like
Cause you know how it is trying to live day-to-day
Smoking N-A-I-D to a better way (Find it, find it)
Will we find it, or go out silent?
Cause it's violent, livin' in a system that's so undermined

The new year brought new tears as our fears got fought
From niggas creepin' from rear with three Glocks
I thought that I never get caught up in a ratchet
Cause its just too much to adapt to
Short tipped and tattooed (Damn)
And how I've seen niggas get
The pain is too much, that why us niggas always lit
No benefits
Cause finding a way could get you killed
Ain't no use in being mad, cause Young Ed is just being real
I see a change to terms to peace
I'm a whole heatin' n' grow deep off through the streets
Release
My anguish and alcohol until it's painless
Cause murdering niggas shouldn't feel shameless, that's the game
It's so crooked, it makes St. Ides look straight
And when I die, will I leave the world full of hate?
Contemplate
To pull ourselves together, no matter what the weather
Gotta be willing to die and live and make it better
Cause you know how it is trying to live day-to-day
Smoking N-A-I-D to a better way
Will we find it, or go out silent?
Cause it's violent, livin' in a system that's so undermined

I sit back relax and let my penna hit me
To escape the hate waitin' at the inner city
Too many tryin' to get me, from Montana to Bigsby
And niggas wonder why I come so sickly
The shit be so thick
I gotta throw these things like brick to your grill
And go out daily with the intent to kill
And at will, like Cube would say:
Didn't have to bust on a nigga with the strap, so it was a good day
I sleep sometimes wonderin' why
God put us young niggas on this earth
Just to die, never multiply
So they say, subtraction is more like it
Could I find a way? Or end up dead or indicted?
The mic is my blessing, it's young adolesen'
I'm stressin' cause like life will get straight to your head like Nexus
And Lexus? Shit. I'll never roll it
Unless I bounce hard off this rap
Or it's a stolen, but I'mma find a way
Cause you know how it is trying to live day-to-day
Smoking N-A-I-D to a better way
Will we find it, or go out silent?
Cause it's violent, livin' in a system that's so undermined

Yeah
Inner city shit for the '96
Everybody gotta find a way
You know what I'm sayin'?
Get up out this shit
We doin' it, like that
And I'm out1Embed