4 ContributorsKings of the Party LyricsOw, alright, now get your ears lowered down to the speakers so you can understand what I'm talkin' about
You know, it seems like no matter where we go to play a concert at
There's one thing that remains constant
From the beginning to the very end of the show
You can always count on about one hundred to five hundred people
Down in the very front row screamin' one word
At the top of their lungs . . . BOOGIE!!!
And sometimes, the feeling prevails upon 'em so hard, beloved
But they just have to mount up on the stage
And get to giggin' with the band
And when they do
Uh-oh, here comes the security fuzz
And the scene is somethin' like this . . 
Hey, you guys are really good, man, I dig up on you guys
When you gon' play "Smokin' in the . . ." OW! OW! OW!
Man, you made me drop my bottle of wine on the floor
See, there you go
So we're gon' dedicate this song to everybody listenin'
Because the ones that get into it
Are definitely the KINGS OF THE PARTY!!!
Well, every Friday night there's a concert in their town
You know they all get together and they're ready to party down
And ol' Brownsville Station really digs 'em, 'cause they get it on
You might also likeYou see the chicks, they all go crazy, oh when the band begins to play
And the guys make so much noise, they scare all the cops away
But together we start to change the show into a rock and roll holiday
We're the kings of the party, we're the baddest people alive
We're the kings of the party, a-come on and slip me five
Now, we're the kings of the party, 'cause we're the baddest people alive, a-woww
Jump
A-get it
Ooh
Yeah
Ow
Now, ten thousand eyes watchin' Brownsville leave the floor
Ten thousand tongues screamin', More, more
And there were fifteen hundred still waitin' outside the door
'Cause we're the kings of the party, the baddest people alive
We're the kings of the party, come on and slip me five
We're the kings of the party, 'cause we're the baddest people alive
We're the kings of the party, the baddest people alive
We're the kings of the party, come down-down on and slip me five
We're the kings, the kings of the rock and roll party, 'cause we get it on
We're the kings of the party, we're the baddest people alive
We're the kings of the party, a-come on and slip me five
We're the kings of the party, 'cause we're the baddest people alive
Huh
YeahEmbed