1 ContributorReal Deal & Fresco vs HFK & Charron Lyrics
Grab a knife

Stab him twice
: Hack and slice
:  cried
: Get dismembered
: Quickly severed
: Rip your retina
: Say "bye"
: Grip it strong
: Stick it long
: Vision gone
: Stay blind, once your view is dismembered
: I'll hand your pupil to Trevor
: Queer Eye For The Straight Guy
: Yo, I gotta speak my mind
For three months Charron's been calling me a "faggot" and I'm finally seeing why
Cause I wanted to fuck the shit outta Fresco until I found out he's a guy
Me and your girl Jessica Lin be getting it in
She's the type of ugly ass skeez' that I punch and I beat
Just this morning she gave me a rim job under the sheets
And I'm like, "Bitch, how dare you lick my ass without brushing your teeth."
You might also like:
I watched your battle online but didn't hear any clap or applause
Cause every time you spat a line my computer somehow put the battle on "Pause"
:
Oh, great debate topic Corey
We're the truth
:
You're false appeal
:
We spit real
:
You swallow Real
:
Every night he hops in the bed with Trevor and he cops a feel
Like, "Why would I ever wanna get signed when I already got a Deal?"
And your battle versus Pesci
He had the biggest choke in Canadian history
:
Until you brought Fresco to your hotel and celebrated your victory
When girls go down on me, them hoes shiver and get wet
:
When girls go down on him, they use their middle finger and index
:
See Real Deal's a teacher and his principle condones all his knowledge
But once he saw your last battle, you were thrown in his office
Real Deal was like...
:
"Look, I'm sorry about the crude language, I know it's obnoxious."
:
And the principle said, "No. You know damn well you can't date the teacher from Home Economics."
:
During your last battle, during the last event, all Organik did was panic and wait
Until Fresco called him like, "Damn it, I'm late."
Organik was like...
:
"I know you're on after the break. Exactly at 8:00."
:
And Fresco was like, "No man. Like I'm actually late."
What? You wanna be a Smack rapper now?
:
What? You gotta shoot the heater?
:
Applying Neutrogena
What? You're gonna spark the Ruger
:
Watching Martha Stewart
What? You aiming each clip?
:
Using Ladies Speedstick
What? You're gonna spark and squeeze the chrome?
:
Like, "Leave Charlie Sheen alone."
:
Yo, you guys wanna go ahead and say I'm a terrorist
Nah, I'm the motherfucking town hero
And halalalalala!
I just added two more American casualities to Ground Zero
:
Ayo, and I can spit freestyles and pimp chicks you can tell that I'm aware
Ayo this camera girl right now, Fresco is totally jealous of your hair
:
Right now he's getting angry
Like, "Stop it. I'm getting sick and tired of the things that you say
I mean, I'm a man and I don't understand why the whole world thinks that I'm gay."
{HFK throws glitter on the ground}

Y'all ain't a couple right?
Just a couple guys
Why you always rubbing on his thigh though?
You wanna break away but he'll wind back and slap you like he's gunning for the five hole
Now y'all go clubbing right?
Other night, he found some numbers on your iPhone
That was the straw that broke the camel's back
Now he doesn't have a ride home

Look, how is this terrorist cat gonna be pairing with Marilyn Manson's ribs?
Y'all two suck so much dick I'm surprised you're not wearing a plastic bib

Pause that shit, pause that, hold the fuck on
Cause- that's the fucking Night Shredder

That's the Night Shredder?
Whoa whoa
Same motherfucker that'll give my girl nice pleasure?

That's him, ain't that mad funny bro?

But wait, that means he kills fakes, he's too raw
And he'll leave me with a cracked ugly nose

HFK what the fuck is a "female duffel bag"?
And how does one person get "a couple tans"?
God damn your set ups are bad
You be on match.com trying to set up your dad
With a profile that says, "Single pops with a celibate swag"
Ain't you from a dry place?
Click clack you'll get wet up with mags
Cause my goons fuck with a stash like porn stars from the 70's had

Now you, you stayed at Pat's house
Assed out
Don't pretend like you blacked out
You let him face fuck like an All Star, he nicknamed you "Smash Mouth"
Now Pat don't fuck with you no more, he said your ass was bony
Hollohan don't fuck with him cause he smashed the homie
You got 40 ex wives, gotta pay them bitches alimony
Yo' main bitch cut hair
Oh he mad cause she styling on me

They wonder why we didn't get across the boarder
Well here's the story on the "you not gon' believe" tip
I was minding my own business crossing the Peace Bridge
And I got on my street shit
I mean immigration was like, "Who you staying with?"
I said, "Travis Fleetwood"
He's like, "Guys get a load of this. A Trevor with a Travis. Now that don't seem hood."
I said, "Ha.Ha.Ha." That blicky will turn his lights out
Once you hear that clap brlaat, you nap and sleep good
He said, "You trying to get across our boarder? Nix that."
He must've seen the Mac like Fleetwood
Arcane was there he'll tell you that, that's a true story

Arcane will also tell you a lil' something about this because HFK fucks yo' mom
So she had to have a talk with you earlier
You heard a noise in the bedroom which he thought was a burglar
He came in and HFK must've looked like a monstrous murderer
On top of her working her
Cause he started crying like, "HFK, stop it. You're hurting her."
But, he ain't hurt her
She said he either got a small ass dick or a long ass clit
Looking like a two year old after he got his ball sack kicked
Flipped that bitch over like a tire in a Strong Man lift
And wrapped a chain around her neck on some dog tag shit
Mortal Kombat tip
I discount with a pussy mostly
Charron's watching, listen closely
Waiting for the perfect moment to pop in the side of us like 
With them bells on ya sister look like Jade and Catana
I be palming both of them bitches foreheads so long that it gave me stigmata
That's the red dot, red dot, yes I let the lead pop
You AFK so HFK get JFK the head shot

Yo bitch, you guaranteed that your flow's dumb
What's a female dufflebag?
Well guaranteed he owns one
Ayo real talk, Organik...who is this faggot?
I'ma palm the Rug' start shooting this faggot
Grab the heater, you're the teacher but I'm schooling this faggot

Alphabetical Slaughter

Papoosing this faggot
I'm abusing this faggot and I'm bruising this faggot

Oh and by the way, Fresco, you are a faggot

You wanna be a Smack rapper go and try muhfucka
Step and you  and you would die muhfucka

He would be like, "I looked at your jeans and I nearly cried muhfucka."
Like, "That design is so 2009 muhfucka."

I'll store pencils in your mouth by keeping your jaws spread

I'll use your hair as a broomstick if I need my garage swept

I'll use your body as a Swiffer just to clean up some cobwebs

And the only reason we're speaking this nonsense
Is cause we know women hate it when we treat them like objects
Yo, look like Enrique Iglesias, one of the goofiest singers
And the day I was sure he lets dudes in his sphincter
And he's not into doing girl strippers
Is when I pulled a file out Mystique's ass and he's like, "Wow. HFK has some beautiful fingers."

Fresco sits in his bed and wishes he was currently dead

Everyday Fresco thinks about dying

...his bangs purple or red

So earlier I was chilling with Charron and Fresco came and gave me a hug like, "Heeeey FK"
And I'm like, "Charron, doesn't he come off in a faggity way?"
And Charron was like

"Hugs are cool man. Why would you say that they're gay?"

And I'm like, "I know but that's like the tenth fucking hug he's gave me today."

Against Pesci you claimed your third round was spit from the dome
But why is there a clip where you spit the same lyrics to Rone?
Would've been stoned, admitting the shit from Scribble was written at home

So now the skeleton's out of your closet

I guess Fresco's in there alone
Back home in Illinois, Fresco is feeling boys
Sucking dicks for pity

Hey yo Toronto, Fresco has blown all of Chicago

That's why it's known as "The Windy City"
You both got plane tickets and hotels

Who you think paid for the stuff?

They even had Grind Time camera man

Who do you think paid for the stuff?

Ten Canadians battled in Grind Time and they didn't pay us a buck for the plane or the bus

We ain't hating on Lush

But it'd be nice to see y'all return the fucking favor for once
Judges, don't buy into their pity vote
Their tactic is persuasion

Like, "We're real rappers. All they come with is gay jokes and that shit just gets played quick."

Say I'm young and skinny

Tell me I'm a terrorist who's fat and we'll embrace it

Bitch you dress like you belong in the fashion entertainment

We're factual with statements

So laugh it off and take it

But don't get mad at all this gay shit

Cause what else could we really say to you Fresco

You're actually a faggot

You can try whatever gimmick you want, but you won't beat me
How you got this coke head bitch showing her ass and she OCD?
I'm finna get my mack on with that shit, no PC
By the end of the night I'll be hitting that bitch on the side like an old TV
Ya'll motherfuckers heard about this dude Corey yo?
He be doing BET, Proud2B, Ultimate MC

Yeah yeah, cool story bro

Alright, I got one you might like
He had a job at Wal-Mart and he said he's not gonna miss it
Cause now he's got a job at a prison as the stand in for conjugal visits
HFK I gave your mom the business
Now she worships my cock alone and is no longer polytheistic
Quick question Charron
How come your remote only pause when you click it?
How come you keep shoving table legs in your ass like it's not gonna rip it?
How come every mall Santa since you were six said you were naughty for Christmas?
I mean at that age a cock with a fist fit should not be at the top of your wish list

Damn, fuck, I mean I used to action figures
With karate chop action
It usually came with a knife
You got father figures
With pelvic thrust action
They always came with the pipe
Your piece of shit dad gets drunk and beats your mom every Arabian Night
So I know that bitch won't give me no lip, but her labia might

Yo, HFK be posted up at the changing station with a tip jar looking for babies to wipe
While Charron's on deck pocking pool having the fucking game of his life

Every kid in his high school with a letter man jacket, said you're a faggot
You got thrown in the locker, every day was getting his ass kicked
But back then he'd try to rebuttal it like

"You might've thrown me the locker but you'll get crushed with words."

"What the FUCK you say to me pussy?!"

"Nothing sir"

So he would get tripped in the hall
They'd swirly this bitch in the stall and haze him
They would beat his shit to a pulp, bigger kids kicking him on the pavement
Friends? They never kicked it at all
They would spitball, rip on him and chase him
So now-a-days the only reason he's getting involved
Cause he can say shit to us all without a physical altercation
Pussy

With all them clips in the tool he's peeled
We know what someone from his religion would do for real
That snub will blow he hugs Charron and use that bitch as a human shield
His pops be like, "Americans are this, American's are that
American's are arrogant. American's are fat."
Well he's humble and I'm skinny so the comparison is wack
You're a racist bitch that's fat and a generic little brat
How American is that?
See you're basically trash, that's why you've never been to the states in the past
But here's how it would've gone if the leagues actually did gave him some cash
He would've been like, "I'm at the airport now, they're filling my plane up with gas
So I just logged into Facebook to ask if anyone in NY knows a place we can crash."

Stop pretending you are hard bitch you're sensitive and harmless
You'll never be respected as a star, you're not respected as an artist
You got a lot of robberies under your belt
For example that shit you said to Twist was garbage
In your country you'd lose both hands for stealing
And wind up catching dick regardless
Now Organik booked us last year, World Domination match
He said, "Details, we'll work on 'em after."
He said, "Basically he's a beast. He'll come up here and murk any rapper."
He said he only picked you cause you being Persian is a factor
His fat ass got up from the dinner table like, "Hmmm, what's it gonna be, dessert or Dizaster?"
Ayo fuck that, you're fat as shit with breast's fam
Funny that you pulled Mystique into it cause she's an X-Man
 {21:00}
So I'm the student that gets beat up in the locker room
I'm not surprised bitch
Well this student doesn't have to pop a nine clip
To have this American teacher drop and die quick on some Columbine shit
And listen, you can clown me for being young and a student, well maybe you need a tutor
C'mon you're a teacher Trevor, you should know the youth is the future

First off, I'd like to take this time out to say "rest in peace" to my uncle Bin Laden
Because I was with him before he died, chilling in his eloquent mansion
And he whispered his last words to me in the Arabic language
Like, "Come closer Farbud
I want to tell you these last words before I exit the planet
Fresco's a faggot!"

So now Osama's dead you think you have Al-Qaeda beef?
Bitch it took you ten years to win a game of hide and seek

Yo, pardon my French but fuck you faggot
Fresco is a lifeguard cause people's safety is was Tony is about
But one day a man went in the pool and everyone was like

"Oh no he's gonna drown!"

So Fresco ran in pulled him out and laid homie on the ground
And everyone was like, "Dude. You're suppose to give him CPR by blowing on his mouth."

Your students always have questions and they're muttering 'em out

"Mr. Weller! Mr. Weller! What's a brainstorm?"

"Well that's used for structuring things out."

"Mr. Weller! Mr. Weller! What's Argentina?"

"Well Timmy, that's a country in the south."

"Mr. Weller! Mr. Weller! What's a thesaurus?"

"YOU SHUT YOUR FUCKING MOUTH!"

Hey Charron I wouldn't wanna be ya
You just had your back turned to Fresco, ahh, not the best idea
Yo, on parent/teacher night, Real Deal invites all the daddies and mommies to come in
Like, "Mr. and Mrs. Johnson, let me start off with my judging
In the first semester your son was slept on cause his projects were stellar
And your second semester he beasted and he was like the Hollow Da Don of construction
And in the third semester, Tommy was stumbling
But then came back in music class and bodied the trumpet."
And the dad is like, "Hey Mr. Weller, pardon my interruption and I'm sorry to stop the discussion
But are you fucking retarded or something?"
So these two walked into Blockbuster and Real Deal was like, "Hey Fresco let's rent a Paul Rudd movie or something new on DVD."
And Fresco was like

"I Love You Man"?

And Real Deal was like, "I know you do but what movie do you wanna see?"

Ayo, he mad right now
No, no, no, no he mad right now

He 'bout to call one of his two dads right now

He wants to suck my dick so bad right now

Yo Fresco, excessive boozer
Meth abuser
You're a teacher but your son was never tutored

You put your rapping before your kid to get there sooner

Ruining your child's dreams like Freddy Krueger

So hopefully you drop from cancer or a deadly tumor
Cause without a father who's a pathetic loser

Trevor Junior

Can have a better future

Yo, Trevor Junior used to always cry as a toddler
Cause what kind of a father

Spends more time with his daughter?
Speaking of daughters, The Saurus's daughter is in his class and he hates her since he knows her dad
For football she doesn't get shoulder pads
And for fire drills he makes her go last
She's like

"Mr. Weller, I took a lot of notes in class. Am I going to pass?"

And he's like, "I'm sorry Deloris I have to hold you back
And All I fucking Know Is That"
Any motherfuckers claiming we'll lose to these clowns must be stoned
Cause as soon as we heard that there were Yankees

In the Grand Prix

We're like, they need to leave town, start running home

Cause we just gave 'em a beat down

Crushed their bones

Ate 'em in each round

Cut their throats

So one American team down

One to go!Embed