5 ContributorsDo the Brown Nose LyricsGood evening ladies and gentlemen
And welcome to P.J.'s Astrological Love Lounge
We are Lester Shy and the Shyphonics
My name is Lester Shy and these fine gentlemen all around me
Well they're the Shyphonics
And we hail proudly from Fargo, North Dakota
Now, way down south in Fargo, whenever we needs a little somethin' extra
We like to do a little thing we call the brown nose
And we'd like all you fine ladies and gentlemen here tonight
To help us out in doin' the brown nose
So remember: when I shout "What you gonna do?"
You're gonna shouts back "Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose"
Think you can handle that? (crowd: ya!)
I'm pretty sure you can; let's give it a try
What you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
Oh, ladies and gentlemen, you should all be round up and shot
That was terrible (crowd: moans)
What you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
Yes! Yes! That's so much better
You have my permission to go out and reproduce (crowd: light cheering)
You're lovely human beings
So now we're gonna do a little brown nosin' for ya
Are you excited? (crowd: cheering)
Are you ready?
Okay then, here we go!
You might also likeWhen you want that job, I say now what you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
There's rich uncle Bob, I say now what you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
You get stopped by the man, I say now what you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
Record company wants to sign your band, I say now what you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
Mercy!
???? myself 300 times
Alright!
Now I know many of you fine ladies and gentlemen
Have begun to ask yourself
Ooh, but Lester Shy and the Shyphonics
How do we do this wild new thing you call the brown nose?
Well take a second, prepare yourself mentally and physically
We'll show you how to brown nose
Bend your (bend yo') knees (ooh LaLaLa...)
Now move your head like this (ooh LaLaLa...)
Pucker dem lips (ooh LaLaLa...)
Give dat butt a kiss (ooh...)
Kiss my
Askin' for some green, I say now what you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
Boss is really mean, I say now what you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
Wanna impress your a' girlfriend's father, I say what you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
Owe some money a' to your brother, I say what you gonna do?
(Gonna brown nose. Gonna brown nose)
You! Yes you! Here's a dime; run out and call the PMRC (Ok)
Gonna brown nose!
I wanna see every last one of you brown nosin'
Even you tuna lips
Alright! If you can dig it I wanna hear you shout
Erlenmeyer Flask
(Erlenmeyer Flask)
Alright, I know you loved it the first time
You gonna love it even more the second time
As once more, we prepare to get down
And do some serious big-time brown nosin'
Bend your (bend yo') knees (ooh LaLaLa...)
Move your head like this (ooh LaLaLa...)
Pucker dem lips (ooh LaLaLa...)
Give dat butt a kiss (ooh...)
Kiss my (YA!)Embed