1 ContributorMy Name Is Pinkie Lyrics
RD: Yo, bass for your face!
PP: Bass for your face? Rainbow, I hope you're not going around hitting ponies upside the head with bass guitars or nothin'
RD: It's an expression, Pinkie
(Cross my heart, hope to fly, stick a cupcake in my-)

(Ahhh!) -is whatcha said
‘Cause I getcha sugar high
’Til it gets to ya forehead
As much you try you find your brain just can't ignore this
Pink horses
‘Cause you know I've got that
Cake… and I gotta keep my pieces!
Here's the sweet bits
A pony new release, it's
The pony who loves to bake, it's blowin' up in your face
And hopin' your day is made
A filly who's finna place a
You might also likeSmile… wide as a mile
Grinning еar-to-ear and aisle-to-aisle
Got thеse ponies on the floor, from shore to shore
Askin' for more
(Dashin' from door to door!)
And she's still the little filly who made Gilda squiggle like a tilde
Who fits the bill, a little shrill like Sarsaparilla
With vanilla, sometimes I scream
Just burstin up at the seams
But I don't mean to make a scene, ya know what I mean?
(Ey, yo check this out!)

Nope! Not my intention
To ratchet up the tension
Whatcha met: an injection
Of affectionate confection
It's infectious but I never meant to get 'em any
More than a dash of salt! If fun is a planned result
A mess, I must confess, you gotta break some eggs to make
An egg-cellent omelette (But wait!) that's not all you get
(Watch as I work my gypsy magic…)
A bit of batter, from the matter, this or that or timeline splatter
Pat in extra hour and don't add the candy wrapper
It's all about how ya fit the wiggle in your giggle
The snortle in your chortle, the cherry in your merry
The bowl's all turvy, I gotta level
And this dough is so thick ya need a shovel for this
Extra sugar, extra salt, extra oil and
MSG… but whatcha call lil' M-S. me?

Pinkie Pie (Aaaahhh)
That's my name and I'm gon' play this 'til you
Feel so high (Aaaahhh)
Ponies say that she's so crazy, baby
She's the kind (Aaaahhh)
You can ask and she can tell but there's
No reason why (Aaaahhh)
(Stick a- stick a- stick a- Stick a cupcake in my eye!)
RD:
Yo, Pinkie, yo, some of these ponies don't know what they're talkin' 'bout, mare!
These clowns are havin' a breakdown tryna keep us out the get down!
But it's cool, they'll come around in a while, maybe single-file
We just gotta show 'em how to party Ponyville style!
(Ah, hit me!)

(*BAM*) -is the sound of the party cannon (Na na nahh-nahh-nahh nah)
Time for action, just a little bit of traction
When you're pronkin' and rompin' and boppin' and walkin' and
Talkin' on your big four hooves, your steel horseshoes
To feel your moves, just stompin' it silly and you (Na na nahh-nahh-nahh nah)
Ever get the feeling that the roofin' is loose and the ceiling is squealing
The furniture's burning
Boots four-on-the-flooring
The fourth wall is boring
And whirlin' like Soarin’
The jelly is pourin'
Break these fetters, things that make it better
“Never" to Lavender
‘Cause the end of it's met hers
Refuse it, solution is a four-legged revolution
Of sonic confusion, we're us-ed to
Losin' it, and causin' up a
Nuisance… Yes, our noise is cacophonous
Whenever we be Ponkin' it
And jumpin' goes the lot of us
Like a big hippopotamus
And whether or not you've got it, you wanna go…
(PINKIE!!!)
As ya bump this beat
That dis-rupts the peace
Turns up the heat
(Na na nahh-nahh-nahh nah)
Inter-rupts your sleep
A Humpty heap
Cor-rupts the meek
The casus belli is the lack of the jelly
The princess is smelly
A whiff of confetti, phew!
Nevertheless I'm thinkin' about the
Reasonin' why we just can't seem to
(Na na nahh-nahh-nahh nah)
Keep our sweets and maybe the regent of
Friendship seems to really need to
Steep in a relaxin' cup of tea if
She's not the kind for the fun party
You see if it were up to me
Prescribe a chill suppository
(Whoa!) OK, that's too harsh a line
But some never got an inkling why
Prime time for them to piece the rhyme
Should ya mind that she can hide
In the box you think inside
Caught within the blinking eye
Try, fly and sight the Pinkie Pie
(Actually, me and Twilight are cool… I'm just playing a role!)
(Aaaahhh) x4

So, I hope you're down with the crew
Equestria's most dangerous group
Marez With Attitude
'Cause Rainbow's Dash is out in full effect (Yo)
Bump this groove, butter smooth like F.S (Smooth)
If you can buck it down like AJ (Yeah)
Or stomp it out, jump around like Pin-kay
Keep it fancy, like Rarity, y'all (Uh huh)
Give Twilight a call (Oh?)
And tell her who sent ya

Pinkie Pie (Aaaahhh)
That's my name and I'm gon' play this 'til you
Feel so high (Aaaahhh)
Ponies say that she's so crazy, baby
She's the kind (Aaaahhh)
You can ask and she can tell but there's
No reason why (Aaaahhh)
(Stick a- stick a- stick a- Stick a cupcake in my eye!)

Pinkie Pie (Aaaahhh)
That's my name and I'm gon' play this 'til you
Feel so high (Aaaahhh)
Ponies say that she's so crazy, baby
She's the kind (Aaaahhh)
You can ask and she can tell but there's
No reason why (Aaaahhh)
(Stick a- stick a- stick a- Stick a cupcake in my eye!)

RD: Yo we doin' this with TLC, that stands for time, laughter, and cupcakes, ya know what I'm sayin'?Embed