16 ContributorsFIGJAM Lyrics
I woke up this morning, but I didn't wake
Till the afternoon because I slept in late
With a great mental state and a date with destiny
I'll roll down the block without a copper even stressing me
Let alone arrestin' me or givin' me a ticket
It's comin' into summer, and the weather's fuckin' wicked
So I figured I'd be hitting the beach
Look at skinny-dippers' titties and get something to eat
After half a pound of chips and a flounder burger
I was sitting on my arse like a council worker
Reminiscin' about being pissed off about
My house burnin' down to the ground and being out
On my arse before my change of fortune
Now I score tunes, don't get up before noon
So yo mamma's on the head of my knob
And it's better than heading to my dead-end job
Because the boss was a cock head when I was a clerk
So I clocked him – and now I don't work
It's beautiful day, and I can use a cliche, 'cause
"I am the greatest!" like Cassius Clay

I got the world at my feet, and my toe jam's nasty
(Figjam!) Fuck, I'm good, just ask me
I couldn't give a shit about your corporate hierarchy
(Figjam!) Fuck, I'm good, just ask me
You might also like
"I can't believe how dope I am, I'm the motherfuckin' man"
"I can't believe how dope I am, I'm the motherfuckin' man"
"I can't believe how dope I am, I'm the motherfuckin' man"
"I can't believe how dope I am, I'm the motherfuckin' man"

I rock around in track-and-thongs, fucked off a bucket bong
If you don't like it, you can come suck a long dick
'Cause I'm brit pop, all the way to hip-hop
I get so plastered, you'd think I'm drinking Gyprock
But I'm shit-hot, no matter how you look at it
And my lyrics make you wanna read the book-a-let'
Don't 'cause I'm cooking it like the iron chef!
That's why I'm deaf, up to the high clef
(Figjam!) The rhymes are fat like Chief Wiggum
And in fact, I never lag it's like a magic pack of Tim Tams
We're the duck's nuts and you suck and I don't give a damn
So good on the cut, they should call me Edward Scissorhands
So give a hand for me and my associates
(You suck!) Well, that's just inappropriate
Smoke me a kipper, bitch, I'm from the Ipa-switch
Side of town, don't forget to write it down
(West side, eeee!) What the fuck? It ain't gangster rap!
Think you're tougher, then you'd probably suffer wanker's cramp
And I'll thank you to fuck right off
Professional fuckwits, take one night off
I'm Evil Eddie with a rock-steady microphone mastery
(Figjam!) Fuck, I'm good, just ask me
As a concept, the intellect can't grasp me
(Figjam!) Fuck, I'm good, just ask me

"I can't believe how dope I am, I'm the motherfuckin' man"
"I can't believe how dope I am, I'm the motherfuckin' man"
"I can't believe how dope I am, I'm the motherfuckin' man"
"I can't believe how dope I am, I'm the motherfuckin' man"

I got the strong profile, without the help of rhinoplasty
(Figjam!) Fuck, I'm good, just ask me
Kicking arse in the charts, but you can't class me
(Figjam!) Fuck, I'm good, just ask me
I just had a threesome with ya mamma and your auntie
(Figjam!) Fuck, I'm good, just ask me
And they're coming back this arv' for the bukkake party

(Figjam!) My dick is bigger than a wigwam!
And you can see my pee-pee three feet above the TV
And if you are getting very sleepy
Wake up! (These cunts need a shake up)
I'm a jet-set, go-getter, but I got a vendetta
Just got a death threat over the phone
Better go lay low, under ground, like a bilby
(Figjam!) Chill man, people wanna kill me!
But I don't let that bullshit sweat me
I'm at ya mamma's if you wanna come and get me
You shady fuck, I may be stuck
In a crazy situation but I'm favoured by lady luck
You wanna stop me? You'd wanna do it properly?
Ah, fuck! Somebody shot me!Embed