1 ContributorDeCypher Tha Khaos and King Truce LyricsDeCypher Round 1
Round 3 v2
The loss of Nipsey Hustle rocked the nation, greatness is what that nigga was...shit it sucks...but it relates to this battle in a way. They like nigga what? No matter how much good you do...time doesn't think it such and just 'cause Banger call Truce don't mean we all give a fuck, so give it up! Evil is definite, no evil there's death in it, been through pain for possessions like the priest from the exorcist! I peep all your references, not feeling the vibe of what you put togеther the materiеl, lies. Think you hot shit, well I'm coolin' it down. Analog clock, The second hand moving around, then I'm moving around, take ya man soul you can see it moving around. The house next to you empty, look like somebody moving around! Nigga move and a round on top of your head you should be used to the crown. You still a clown, bar inside a bar look what do with him now I just battled Steven King, you should be used to it clown. Dead men float, that's exactly what you'll do when you drown. You seek additional buzz, 'til I'm picking your lungs. It get to your heart no matter what..who said there's no such thing as unconditional love! You playing wit a savage, wanted smoke you get the bucks I'm enabling the habit! I take a brick, and smash it ya eye gon' bleed. Ya face shatter on impact like an iPhone screen. Don't leave this guy on his own, king gon' rise from the throne? Hella deadly Elvis Presley the King gon' die on a throne! Basic bitch I hate ya shit and since the King dead the prints cover, I got away with it! I know everything you gon' do I can read your eyes, you gon' try to rap better exposing more that you can't you shouldn't even try. Maybe an impression, nah to do that we'd have to think alike...forced wordplay. No substance...fuck it why did you even bring this guy. I think him sly, I'm coming at you like a Twitter logo nigga, so peep the signs, meet the knife, your ladder won't even reach this time, dagger shoved deep inside now Truce is having trouble even keeping his piece of mind...You must smoke stuff that's not weed, if you think that you Shonuff. This my lane and you ain't anything more than a road bump. Keep thinking you so tough, 3 rounds, hole punch. I don't bluff. Phone got..bars and delivery, GoPuff. Have some niggas take his body, and then burn it in fire to Immerse in airy plots, this is murder for hire! No this is murder for higher, I eliminate it disintegrates any chance for your vindication you a bit to late. I'm saying...You not winning, get that out of your head. The plot thickens, when I fill it with ya body instead. I locksmith him. You not safe, chalk victims, leave him boxed in. Swearing fine. Since going in his jaw, the way he talk different. I'm the wrong nigga! Living proof that talent pays. I'm rappers favorite. Rhymes like good credit, balance statements with a subliminal introspect, I was taught if you indirect, when they catch you be prepared to end a wreck. They put a bag in your face like you in da wreck then expect you spill info quick like the end'a wrecks. I'll fuck up ya dental set, with a petty chop. Them steady shots, Golden Eye, Deborah Cox that mean the bond starting with you...Eddie Brock! Once his round over he in danger, Corretta Scott. King, I showed him that I was among elite, a body weight has no respect for what's under feet get crushed beneath. You brought ya backup, here...yeah I bet they won't come back up here. Them funeral homes where whoever you back appear. Three's a crowd, and two is company. I got trust issues, keep my guard up when a Truce in front of me. You can't front on me. You got stake in the grounds like a new discovery. How you came up to P...A... just to lose befuddle me. I use this summery, I let my actions speak for me like I'm doing mummery, but break doors down like I'm married and my wife can do adultery! They say my concepts drawn out, consider it rapping foreplay. You rather take a nigga from the burgh or King? Think Have it your way. They criticize me for choking, but lost money when he forgot his rhymes. Your entire league surpassed you, I killed my class, the column bind. Lost a couple, but kept it pushing...you had to sit back and watch 'em fly. The ones who soared, I'da stoned, think I give a fuck what King authorize? Partner fine...this a windmill to a pinwheel being empathetic of him pathetic to da human eyes/dehumanize his death ain't such a big deal. So I'm taking 80% off his face, clock him straight, let's see if he can work with a box like an office space. I should be battling Chess, 'cause the game I know what it's like. You came to the burgh, and didn't expect that I'd be able to fight...right..it's exactly like Chess. When going out your way just to rhyme...you know a King can only make moves 1 space at a time! Oh we gon' have a talk tonight...even  if it hold up the card like it's auction night. The niggas where you from, very few can move their arm to write. That don't constitute a lot to know what amend meant you gotta earn ya stripes! Think you a star, newsflash there's lot of those that spark the skies.

Every battle with me, my style I refine it. Let him start shooting at me, awaking a teen I take cover don't let me find it. Saying please die it's gonna be hard for me to digest. So I keep quiet, pull out a BIC lighter dump the fluid in the crack of sidewalk but have enough for a spark to ignite it. As he get closer...hoping he's gonna leave me lifeless. Now he understand himself 'cause Truce see's fire! He's going up in flames! I'm too vile, for you Kyle...every battle I show up with a intricate new style. Wipe the dirt off everytime they just swept me a new pile. I got the proof Truce so why would I move like you? I got the keys, carpentry, your efforts are futile. We got a limit to rap, but unlimited caps..You soft, type of nigga to drown taking a bath. You existing in a place where your crown considered a hat. Through ya rounds crowds, finna relax. Now sit in the back...Death come quick for niggas with a taller rate, you gotta live with that. This is facts...you really think all them strapped? Pittsburgh fight one on one...you can all get bashed. Get past face one, then another right after like a gauntlet match! I would sock you...nah I isn't so rude nigga...I could never pull that off without anything more than a cool snicker. 'Cause I don't take you serious...on Earth or the moon nigga. I never sold him no pounds, Think Antonio Brown, I'm not a Truce stealer. feel it...yeah I never needed help it don't make you look bad 'cause you lost to DeCypher it just make you look like everybody else.

DeCypher Round 2
You a fish in a barrel, me the league, name was never a subject. They bring me one I kill for fun, we pulled a bit of strings dummy but that make you a puppet. I refuse to be under a fuckin' tyrant...lemme bring it back. Telling terrible lies get you paralyzed. Dummy can't move no strings attached! Ugly timing...Blade like a trick coin double sided, cut either way you getting stopped, drunken driving. Stuck his eyelids... I'm not gon' split ya top...I need your attention undivided. It'll be a long time before you get a shot like this, you musket firing. Gun it wisely, For acting Chinese, lead'a be on your back! Riley Reid! Back to back these are Siamese! That was a gem and I'll wait for the pound like you buying meat! We on a different scale, You read the stakes, I'm in rare form! Don't give a fuck about Truce. Ain't no such thing as fair war! Now warfare, that's something I can get behind like ya girl bare and you wouldn't know but I'ma save the rest of that scheme for what I'm doing with Zo. Twist and pulling ya bones, No caffeine, clutch ya heart, and they definitely miss him but after the pop they gon have to get the doc to pep a nigga system. This is vicious..Got me going back to my devilish games, better behave. Get power from hurting loved ones, the ebony blade get him betrayed. You was meant to be slaved...but it cost you your look. Yeah you SOLD IN THE DMV, but to us you a rook. That chop ain't cool, when the white man can conquer your looks. We seen King coon to get by, something off is afoot. I will take your main shoes and step in the mud...throw em on the power lines 'cause after every ass-whooping they setting you up! Over there you revel in love but here you fitting in snug. Eternal peace, Truce caskets are the bed you never can love! I come in the hospital room with ya fam and mess with the plug. It's like his career in a way, that nigga Ace on smack spitting with Drugz and guy's expected to shrug your life just ain't what it was. Lie detector test, anything that ain't Truce getting a buzz! You irrelevant without battling, I write 'til I break my knuckles. Poetry, scripting plays and some basic novels. I make a couple, you came to Pittsburgh attempting to break me was you? This is ya whole life...but Cyph in the spot to take it from you! Shang Tsung, take your soul Graverob I take your bones, thinking D's Troy, Truce got you fucked up this ancient Rome! I make him know! Yo at war, niggas all group never enough. No remorse, send some masked troops as the getup. Bro get scorched, send the first dude, where it's lit up. Trojan Horse, 'course they called Truce it was a SETUP! I am fed-up with known bums, I'm back to my old fun, you turn Ghost. Smoke this square on stage I'm Gold Guns. Hold sum, still alive then number of stabs increase, bless you after ya heart stopped, nigga that's a sneeze! I'm past the peak, He came to mosh but this not that pit! BOE, Went OT and I rocked that shit, now I give this box to King like I brought back gifts. No, take backs like he don't want that shit! I knew the 1st boy made I wouldn't feel, here his homies go. Pinocchio, not as real, Wolverine, palm the steel. Ring your bell Arby's meal. Tire pop, stop your will. Exodus, gotta kill, something I can't control, getting older I gotta chill. Blood cold, anemia, bolemia you lost ya mil. Wop ya grill, just for think that I'm not for real give a straight palm to Truce...we got a deal! I'm truly gifted, moving with a smooth precision. I don't know if you Muslim, Buddhist or you is Christian. Being outdated's in your genes and you about to know the True Religion. I'm too consistent, Looking over the cracks in the flow like I'm superstitious. They'll find a substitute for Truce so what makes you think that this youth'll miss him. Goofy nigga...As far as as bars you weak, I'm too delightful. Lunar cycles, what that dark moon mean. I park you. R2. Mortal Kombat block you thing. Then part you, not alarmed like the clock don't ring. You not cool, my worst verse ya doll wet dream. You don't have Cypher puzzled, I can walk through King...You is stupid, crude and clueless to a lot of this. A new recruitment, can only move if we allow the shit. Could use improvement, but dude's delusions are the problem bitch. I'm moving through him dissolving truce illusion like a solvent. Abolish him! I pull up on him, and my stealth game is on library. Break in his crib, time share this guy buried. No cap so, Zoharian I'm fearing? A band stop this pussy like I would but...I'm married. Who really think that this guy a challenge...You gon' have to cheat a death like a crime of passion! I'm giving you a fair shot...but you can't touch the floor, it's lava. Courtesy flush, I do this shit proper. Swift chop, you gon' wake up dead like a witch doctor! Put 3 lines in his throat, nigga looking like a thin locker from what the kid shoved in...or drug across like big mobsters. The blood of this hoe/hole still on my hands, stigmata! I know he gone, I don't even have to is he dead kick him. tactical pink knife, leave it in his head sitting, a real Predator with the mask I put it in for red vision and a bomb attached went from red to blue he set trippin! Left victims, This bitch is a weakling, nigga just please think if you had real friends. They would tell you, you couldn't compete King. But instead they let you attempt. Even said you'd be me I know you stressed Goku death. That's a snake way to see king. Go back to the last pattern, and you'll find that you've been sleep. I said infrared vision listen that's really a snakes way of seeking. You see King...
DeCypher: Round 3
I'm out at sea, relax in a kayak, but still paddling. Niggas call me...he from CBG...said we'll rattle him. Checked his footage...you the biggest contradiction I imagining...ya name Truce...King and you up here still battling! Too bad he is..he gonna need a miracle. A Truce is a suspension of hostility, unoriginal and pitiful all this violence in your rounds makes your name hypocritical. This divisional sport, At the faceoff, you told me if I make it debatable then I really lost. Silly thought. I should pull the blade right now, get ya liver popped now the only thing debatable 'bout this battle is if you'll live or not! I give him props, you got balls for actually coming out! But I'm pissed off it's off you I'm getting all the clout? You know how it feel to have faith while the rest are all in doubt? People leave you, read they true colors after you've fallen out?! Yeah that was an Autumn scheme...You supposed to be the go to guy? No you lie...They tripping, I stay flippin' but it ain't a surprise you seen the flyer? Of course I'll have the niggas name in the lines. I'm taking my time...4/27 your death date, I'll shatter your left plate in your neck it can get caved. My rounds, tune in, food with then you press play. Your rounds, part lips and get skipped leg day, lead blade, King ain't making no moves it's checkmate! You had NuNu Nellz host ya battle to watch you say "You a pussy nigga who been eating way to much pussy nigga still thinking that shit gonna get him a goatee." to a nigga who had a full beard...okay...Since I'm battling Reek in a few weeks, I figured I'd improve his Jules scheme. I'm not comparing you to Simba listen it's symbolism when I use ink. Mufasa, You dead lying if you don't think this scar improves things? But you the hyena's you embarrassed yourself in front of Nu, King. It's too sweet, the victory tastes otherwordly, I'm part Galactus. You don't make the card more special with them hollow graphics...You ever have to hit your cable box my nigga you lost to Static. That's how we do things? Who really think Kyle reign or give power to rings? Get it you from DC, think the polls finna work. Jeepers Creepers, your road trip took a turn for the worse. The blind can lead the blind of Skyrim it reminds me! Think you gon' shout me to death you must be high King! Remember at that mountains with steps you must be hiking. Shout me to deaf you must be high king. Fly schemes, spider-web everything I combine string and this mere practice. For thinking you had the drop on me like a care package, I made a place with flying cars fuck your air traffic. I'm so ahead of my time I gotta prepare backwards but fuck that long blade to his stomach it's real graphic. One poke let it all out, air mattress! This body is for fun, I get nothing from yours. Get cut with the point, jugular torn, beating you like smoking Reggie, it's a shame you even up in this joint...but there was nothing else available...and it's a shame 'cause I been fire lately, You ain't no King you a princess, you like a daisy. I'll take a buzzsaw to the top of your cranium...okay kinda crazy? Naw I leave his top spinning in the grass, 90s baby! Slice his face, deep. Wonder how high I'm getting? Neurosurgeon, mind ya business. Broke nigga acting like he rich: disguise the limit. Find ya image...google search. R. Kelly. Lose ya worth. Bar heavy, suit and hearse. When I sacrifice you, I want your blood to be shared across the universe! Spiral staircase, I'll show you the way round. It's Jack and Jill you come up the Hill and be pail on the way down! Oh, you salty? You don't even deserve the mantle you have. That shit is all me. T-Top battle, ain't no reason you getting called King! You think you a king 'till I pull the sledge out and pass, Shao Khan, maybe the hammer get your head out ya ass! If that sounded bad, it's cause I meant it to nigga, skull and bones look in the face of your emperor nigga! When niggas tee off you playing caddy, blame ya pappy King and that's me. I went back in time to give your real mom some, mad seed but had no idea you'd end up as the black sheep! Like when you was young, you stay strapped but still required to take a backseat. Don't play...'cause I'ma take you out the frame while I maybe snapping. Let him tell it he gon' stay in the picture like a baby daddy. I'ma crop you nigga, but your lack of growth make me wanna call Monsanto nigga. Ain't in your GMO unless you ran through killas but got put in a vegetable state of mind, and the enhancement killed him! I was gon' have a bar for Rachel but I think she gon' learn. You know what a pair is...I don't even know the dame to burn...You promised fire and that's actually absurd, but anything less I'm breaking Truce if he go back on his word. Collapse in the dirt, like a sinkhole stink hoe. You a gnat King, coal the only thing that this twink know. I called him Nat King Cole 'cause with no soul you still earned ya stripes but oh no your coal...meaning you exist to feed a furnace light! He work as a Usurper with a perfect life but on the surface he's acerbic, with a serpent vibe. I'm surfing, and I'm working through the turning tides. Hurting from the first, I gotta Earth you twice...I remember this was something people wished they had the nerve to try, in the past this wasn't for everybody like voting rights. Got me feeling like Melly, get caught by surprise. Fuck Kyle die. Take him to the South Side, leave Truce in the works. Unfinalized. I got a twisted mind, sickened and my clockwork different. I walk up on your girl like I heard that you like it rough you wit it? Nah I walk up on ya mom like I'm sorry your son's become a victim...Nah I walk up on you like, I ain't trying to want forgiveness. She started calling, take your phone out ya pocket and slump you wit it. Facetime her, soon as she started watching, cut your fingers. Slit guys gut 'till your stomach acid and blood go mixing. When it come torture I got no limit, I'll make a leather bag out of your skins...then stuff Truce in it! I ain't the one to grimace, I'm not a gimmick. You got a title then come defend it! I run the business. Soon as the summer hit then you fucks forget that I run the premise? No negation, you going back under 1 condition! DEAD. Better run if you leaving, Sweaty workout you nothing but a warmup for Reek King.Embed