15 ContributorsThe First Day of School LyricsThirteen bubbles floated in the milk. Their pearl transparent hemispheres gleamed like souvenirs of the summer days just past, rich with blue reflections of the sky and of shadowy greens. John Hawkins jabbed the bubble closest to him with his spoon, and it disappeared without a ripple. On the white surface there was no mark of where it had been.
"Stop fooling that oatmeal and eat it," his mother said. She glanced
meaningfully at the clock on the varnished cupboard. She nodded a heavy, emphatic affirmation that now the clock was boss. Summer was over, when the gracious oncoming of morning light and the stir of early breezes promised that time was a luxury.
"Audrey's not even down yet," he said.
"Audrey'll be down."
"You think she's taking longer to dress because she wants to look nice today?"
"She likes to look neat."
"What I was thinking," he said slowly, "was that maybe she didn't feel like going today. Didn't feel exactly like it."
"Of course she'll go."
"I meant she might not want to go until tomorrow, maybe. Until we
see what happens."
"Nothing's going to happen," his mother said.
"I know there isn't. But what if it did?" Again John swirled the tip
of his spoon in the milk. It was like writing on a surface that would keep no mark.
"Eat and be quiet. Audrey's coming, so let's stop this here kind of talk."
He heard the tap of heels on the stairs, and his sister came down
into the kitchen. She looked fresh and cool in her white dress. Her lids looked heavy. She must have slept all right - and for this John felt both envy and a faint resentment. He had not really slept since midnight. The heavy traffic in town, the long wail of horns as somebody raced in on the U.S. highway holding the horn button down, and the restless murmur, like the sound of a celebration down in the courthouse square, had kept him awake after that. Each time a car had passed their house his breath had gone tight and sluggish. It was better to stay awake and ready, he had
told himself, than to be caught asleep.
"Daddy gone?" Audrey asked softly as she took her place across the table from her brother.
"He's been gone an hour," their mother answered. "You know what time he has to be at the mine."
"She means, did he go to work today?" John said. His voice had risen impatiently. He met his mother's stout gaze in a staring contest, trying to make her admit by at least some flicker of expression that today was different from any other day. "I thought he might be down at Reverend Specker's," John said. "Cal's father and Vonnie's and some of the others are going to be there to wait and see."
Maybe his mother smiled then. If so, the smile was so faint that he
could not be sure. "You know your father isn't much of a hand for waiting," she said. "Eat. It's a quarter past eight."
As he spooned the warm oatmeal into his mouth he heard the rain
crow calling again from the trees beyond the railroad embankment. He had heard it since the first light came before dawn, and he had thought, Maybe the bird knows it's going to rain, after all. He hoped it would. They won't come out in the rain, he had thought. Not so many of them, at least. He could wear a raincoat. A raincoat might help him feel more protected on the walk to school. It would be a sort of disguise, at least.
But since dawn the sun had lain across the green Kentucky trees and the roofs of town like a clean, hard fire. The sky was as clear as fresh-washed window glass. The rain crew was wrong about the weather. And still, John thought, its lamenting, repeated call must mean something.
His mother and Audrey were talking about the groceries she was to bring when she came home from school at lunch time. A five pound bag of sugar, a fresh pineapple, a pound of butter....
"Listen!" John said. Downtown the sound of a siren had begun. A
volley of automobile horns broke around it as if they meant to drown it out. "Listen to them."
"It's only the National Guard, I expect," his mother said calmly. "They came in early this morning before light. And it may be some foolish kids honking at them, the way they would. Audrey, if Henry doesn't have a good-looking roast, why then let it go, and I'll walk out to Weaver's this afternoon and get one there. I wanted to have something a little bit special for our dinner tonight."
So...John thought...she wasn't asleep last night either. Someone
had come stealthily to the house to bring his parents word about the National Guard. That meant they knew about the others who had come into town, too. Maybe all through the night there had been a swift passage of messengers through the neighborhood and a whispering of information that his mother meant to keep from him. Your folks told you, he reflected bitterly, that nothing is better than knowing. Knowing whatever there is in this world to be known. That was why you had to be one of the half dozen kids out of some nine hundred colored of school age who were going today to start classes at Joseph P. Gilmore High instead of Webster.
Knowing and learning the truth were worth so much they said - and then left it to the hooting rain crow to tell you that things were worse than everybody had hoped.
Something had gone wrong, bad enough wrong so the National Guard had to be called out.
"It's eight twenty-five," his mother said. "Did you get that snap sewed on right, Audrey?" As her experienced fingers examined the shoulder of Audrey's dress, they lingered a moment in an involuntary, sheltering caress. "It's all arranged," she told her children, "how you'll walk down to the Baptist Church and meet the others there. You know there'll be Reverend Chader, Reverend Smith, and Mr. Hall to go with you. It may be that the white ministers will go with you, or they may be waiting at school. We don't know. But now you be sure, don't you go farther than the Baptist Church alone." Carefully she lifted her hand clear of Audrey's shoulder. John thought, Why doesn't she hug her if that's what she wants to do?
He pushed away from the table and went out on the front porch. The dazzling sunlight lay shadowless on the street that swept down toward the Baptist Church at the edge of the colored section. The street seemed awfully long this morning, the way it had looked when he was little. A chicken was clucking contentedly behind their neighbor's house, feeling the warmth, settling itself into the sun-warmed dust. Lucky chicken.
He blinked at the sun's glare on the concrete steps leading down from the porch. He remembered something else from the time he was little. Once he had kicked Audrey's doll buggy down these same steps. He had done it out of meanness - for some silly reason he had been mad at her. But as soon as the buggy had started to bump down, he had understood how terrible it was not to be able to run after it and stop it. It had gathered speed at each step and when it hit the sidewalk it had spilled over. Audrey's doll had smashed into sharp little pieces on the sidewalk below. His
mother had come out of the house to find him crying harder than Audrey. "Now you know that when something gets out of your hands it is in the Devil's hands," his mother had explained to him. Did she expect him to forget - now - that that was always the way things went to smash when they got out of hand? Again he heard the siren and the hooting, mocking horns from the center of town. Didn't his mother think they could get out of hand?
He closed his eyes and seemed to see something like a doll buggy
bump down long steps like those at Joseph P. Gilmore High, and it seemed to him that it was not a doll that was riding down to be smashed.
He made up his mind then. He would go today, because he had said he would. Therefore he had to. But he wouldn't go unless Audrey stayed home. That was going to be his condition. His bargaining looked perfect. He would trade them one for one.
His mother and Audrey came together onto the porch. His mother
said, "My stars, I forgot to give you the money for the groceries." She let the screen door bang as she went swiftly back into the house.
As soon as they were alone, he took Audrey's bare arm in his hand
and pinched hard. "You gotta stay home," he whispered. "Don't you know there's thousands of people down there? Didn't you hear them coming in all night long? You slept, didn't you? All right. You can hear them now. Tell her you're sick. She won't expect you to go if you're sick. I'll knock you down, I'll smash you if you don't tell her that." He bared his teeth and twisted his nails into the skin of her arm. "Hear them horns," he hissed.
He forced her half way to her knees with the strength of his fear and rage. They swayed there, locked for a minute. Her knee dropped to the porch floor. She lowered her eyes. He thought he had won.
But she was saying something and in spite of himself he listened to her almost whispered refusal. "Don't you know anything? Don't you know it's harder for them than us? Don't you know Daddy didn't go to the mine this morning? They laid him off on account of us. They told him not to come if we went to school."
Uncertainly he relaxed his grip. "How do you know all that?"
"I listen," she said. Her eyes lit with ill sudden spark that seemed to
come from their absolute brown depths. "But I don't let on all I know the way you do. I'm not a...." Her last word sunk so low that he could not exactly hear it. But if his ear missed it, his understanding caught it. He knew she had said "coward."
He let her go then. She was standing beside him, serene and prim
when their mother came out on the porch again.
"Here child," their mother said to Audrey, counting the dollar bills
into her hand. "There's six, and I guess it will be all right if you have some left if you and Brother get yourselves a cone to lick on the way home."
John was not looking at his sister then. He was already turning to face the shadowless street, they heard the unmistakable poised amusement of her voice when she said, "Ma, don't you know we're a little too old for that?"
"Yes, you are," their mother said. "Seems I had forgotten that."
They were too old to take ,each other's hand, either, as they went down the steps of their home into the street. As they turned to the right, facing the sun, they heard the chattering of a tank's tread on the pavement by the school. A voice too distant to be understood bawled a military command. There were horns again and a crescendo of boos.
Behind them they heard their mother call something. It was lost in
the general racket.
"What?" John called back to her. "What?"
She had followed them out as far as the sidewalk, but not past the
gate. As they hesitated to listen, she put her hands to either side of her mouth and called to them the words she had so often used when she let them go away from home.
"Behave yourselves," she said.2Embed