6 ContributorsThe Little Drummer Boy LyricsDavid: hello...... you're the new butler?
Bing: hahaha! well, it's been a long time since I've been the new anything!
David: what's happened to hudson?
Bing: I guess he's changing
David: yeah, he does that a lot, doesn't he? uhm... oh, I'm david bowie, I live
Down the road
Bing: oh!
David: sir percival let's me use his piano if he not around. he's not around, is
He?
Bing: I can honestly say I haven't seen him, but come on in! come in!
David: but uh...
Bing: come on in!
David: are you related to sir percival?
Bing: well, distantly...
David: oh, you're not the poor relation from america, right?
Bing: ha! gee... news sure travels fast, doesn't it? I'm bing
David: oh, I'm pleased to meet you. you're the one that sings, right?
Bing: well, right or wrong, I sing either way
David: oh well, I sing too
Bing: oh good! what kind of singing?
David: mostly the contemporary stuff. do you eh... do you like modern music?
Bing: oh, I think it's marvellous! some of it's really fine. but tell me, have you ever listened to any of the older fellows?
David: oh yeah, sure. I like ah... john lennon and the other one with eh...harry
Nilsson
Bing: mmm... you go back that far, uh?
David: yeah, I'm not as young as I look
Bing: haha, none of us is these days!
David: in fact I've got a six year old son. and he really gets excited around the christmas holiday-thing
Bing: do you go in for anything of the traditional things in the... boy, household, christmas time?
David: oh yeah, most of them really. presents, tree, decorations, agents sliding down the chimney...
Bing: what? ?
David: oh, I was just seeing if you were paying attention
Bing: haha!
David: actually, our family do most of the things that other families do. we
Sing the same songs
Bing: do you?
David: oh, I even have a go at 'white christmas'
Bing: you do, eh!
David: and this one. this is my son's favourite. do you know this one?
Bing: oh, I do indeed, it's a lovely theme
Come they told me pa-rum-pum-pum-pum
A new-born king to see pa-rum-pum-pum-pum
Our finest gifts we bring pa-rum-pum-pum-pum
Rum-pum-pum-pum, rum-pum-pum-pum
Peace on earth, can it be
Years from now, perhaps we'll see
See the day of glory
See the day, when men of good will
Live in peace, live in peace again
Peace on earth, can it be
Every child must be made aware
Every child must be made to care
Care enough for his fellow man
To give all the love that he can
I pray my wish will come true
For my child and your child too
He'll see the day of glory
See the day when men of good will
Live in peace, live in peace again
Peace on earth, can it be
Can it be
Bing: it's a pretty theme, isn't it?See Earth, Wind & Fire LiveGet tickets as low as $94You might also likeEmbed