3 ContributorsNo Easy Answers Lyrics
You know how people say, "Love is the answer,"
Then what the fuck is the question?

L.O.V.E
Hell no
It isn't easy
Temp rising breathing faster
You can't get no easy answers
Study up and read the chapters
I can't get no easy answers

(True love) ain't the answer, said a former lover through the issues
But was it real or was it superficial?
If it's really (love)
Whether emotional abuse or if they bruise and hit you
Would you be confused or choose a loose or chipped tooth?
Why is it (love)
Needs a ring and city hall papers to prove official?
Is it something you fall in
Or a thing that soothe and lifts you? (love)
Defying gravity
But rather than the latter we
In Pat Benatar's "Battlefield"
Where's the seminar to help a heart that's shattered heal?
Why rally up and chant for nation states that hate to reconciliate
When two people who loved each other can't?
Is it chemistry?
Cause if the recipe is off it leaves you saltier than MSG
We got (love) sparks
Like a finger in the socket by mistake
Is it the opposite of fear or opposite of hate?
Is your (love) guarded with your life
Locked up in a safe?
Or if it's free
Why you feeling trapped and plotting your escape?
You might also like
Searching for greener pastures
I can't get no easy answers
Caught up in the heat of passion
You can't get no easy answers
Turning to complete disaster
I can't get no easy answers
Somebody deceived the masses
Cause there ain't no easy answers

(Love) Supreme like Coltrane
A no-brainer, do you try to own it
Or keep it open with no hang ups? (love)
Is it a baby in her mother's arms?
Or maybe it's the way you got me open with your southern charm?
No Ordinary (Love) and other songs by Sade
Sweet as agave
There's romance and slow dance but what about agape? (love)
Is it a verb or a noun?
Why some disturbed I prefer her and wish that we would burn to the ground?
Is it (love) only in between the sheets?
To me it's only true if I'm told when I got food between my teeth!
That's real (love)
Do you believe in soul mates or mating souls?
Why so many relationships just fill a gaping hole?
Instead of (love), Reflect, Elevate and Grow
Can you truly love another if you relegate your goals?
I heard (love) is breaking all the chains
Take away the pain
Live it
Flying higher than a thousand paper cranes
Temp rising breathing faster
I can't get no easy answers
Study up and read the chapters
I can't get no easy answers
Somebody deceived the masses
Cause there ain't no easy answers
Yep, it both frees and captures
I can't get no easy answersEmbed