3 ContributorsChess vs. Glueazy Lyrics
Ayy, P asked me to get rid of you
So I’m killin’ you
He came to the jungle lookin’ for smoke
That’s why they gave you a gorilla, Glu’ (Gorilla Glue)
Bang, this nigga through
And you ain’t safe either, I’m clippin’ you
It’s like we both landlords, and you can relate to when the rent is due
Plus the tenants rude
Homes, these shots I’m kickin’ out’ll make you a victim (evict him) too
Run down in your dice game
We bet not see a nigga move
We fly by and start snatchin’ that bread off the concrete, like pigeon food
This trailеr trash piece of shit is cool
I be seein’ him snap
But hе need to relax, ‘cause he would get clapped
Hit his wig, a (wigga) White boy out here thinkin’ he Black
But he ain’t seasoned, he wack
None of his shit nice
Get pistol whipped
This pistol grip is a duplication of this pipe
Get smacked wit’ the lookalikes: twin life
You the snitch type
I bet money he don’t live this life
‘Cause niggas blew rounds and never speak...
But that’s something he can’t get right
Clap me where
You wouldn’t pull ratchets here (hair) in a chick fight
Oh so that drug shit what y’all ‘bout?
I seen coke get moved in a dark house
It was pitch-black, they still pitched white
Nigga, sit tight
‘Cause if you get hype, it’s over nigga
He gon’ talk about me chokin’, nigga
‘Til I’m chokin’ niggas
‘Cause he’s average
And that’s all I needed for me to yoke a (mediocre) nigga
Mediocre nigga!
Yoke a nigga, ‘til I see the gasp in his face
Lock on his neck, like John Cena back in the day
This how the savages play, you ain’t really wit’ the action
As a youngin, him leavin’ the crib really didn’t happen
Who remembers SpongeBob?
He had three close friends: penny, chip, and napkin
See you was in the house, liar
You might also likeThey wouldn’t understand, you wouldn’t understand, you a oldhead
See you was in the house, liar
I mean, so was I but I made noise when I was out, liar (outlier)
I can’t catch you outside, you ain’t a outsider
So I’m at your door, wit’ wild fire
Drop your family, pop your nanny: Ms. Doubtfire
From your gang, I doubt fire
‘Cause you a bitch, Glu’
Catch me in your hood, all in your shit, Glu’
Watch him freeze up on his block, homes: igloo
Get it twisted, I’ll push your top up wit’ the stick, Glu’ (glue)
Wait, why you mad, Glu’?
Lookin’ at me like you hate my skin
You kinda remind me of racist men
And that’s a fact too
As a matter of fact, you gettin’ clapped, Glu’
‘Cause I’m blamin’ him
All for what H&M did to the Black youth!
You fuckin’ cracker, under crack use
I should crack you, and make you lean like what crack do!
You real brave for not bringin’ a gat, Glu’

You real brave for not bringin’ a gat, Glu’
Yea I got the .380, stupid, but I also brung the Mac through
He made me do it I had to
Yo Ch-, yo Steams
Yo Chess, if you blast then I’ll blast too
Aim a SIG, it’s time to catch a body, you got me?
Paint his wig
Six 9s (6ix9ines) across his body
Tekashi!
I’m shapeshiftin’, body after body after body
Almighty
I said, ever since they took Joe ass off of Everyday Struggle...
I was kinda hopin' we could get Chess off it, too
Well, I was sick enough to put Danny in a casket
What makes you think Glueazy ain't got Chess coffin (chest coughin') too?
You been chokin' a lot lately
Baby, I hope that it gets better
But Michigan vers' Carolina
You gon' have to take a timeout: you Chris Webber
I don't play wit' rappers
I fire (Phi) first like Beta Kappa
The flow I'm on? Joseph Kahn
Already Bodied your favorite rappers
Headshot, BLAOW!
Be-
Headshot, brains splatter, it's Cake batter
You came here shootin', now you leavin' the game: it's Hank Gathers
Those were some bars for Chess
But did I steal those from Ave?
...Yes
Got heem!
I don't care how many bodies you got
Or if you hot on your block
'Cause if it's "BX or be next", you'll be Scott La Rock!
They say Chess gon' pop a shot, Chess gon' cop a Glock
Bitch, you'll die before a Goonie: you Chester Copperpot!
Look, y'all thought Chess could beat me!?
Fuck is y'all smokin'?
Large toaster, foreign shooter: I'm Barbosa
It's double-sized, and trouble lies for the small soldier
A gun'll fire and some'll rise (summarize) when it's all over
You about to get smoked, choke, then spit eight bars over
If I catch you wit' your bitch, we on her like Kournikova
So move easy
Or four 'Ks on you all like a new TV
Boom-bap! Two taps to your jaw, ya bruise easy
I told Steams I want my money tomorrow, I do him greasy
So you? Tell your brother tomorrow he owe like Luigi
Glueazy, the new breed
This shit close to a body
Snap a picture
Action figure: I pose wit' the body!
I'm s'posed to body you all
This year we handin' out ass-whippings
Mad victims
Gun-butt to the face: ya ass-kissin'
We rap different
Let's see if Chess think he can hang
Lead showered
Terrence Howard: every scene I'm the mayne
The Chef done fried you, then floured you
I'm just pourin' on the seasoning, mayne
'Cause you wrote three rounds for Trez, and then you choked in all three of them thangs!
Yeah, my heater'll bang
That's somethin' that I keep on the waist
That'll crack Chess (chest) open just for thinkin' he safe
That would explain why Steams gon' think you a disgrace!
'Cause you don't ever let a White boy scream in your face!
Carolina, man
Round 1
They said, "Chess, stop takin' so many battles. You could live through it.
Especially if you can't get through it.
I mean, you clearly losin' the passion, so the money must be the influence.
Honestly, it look like you've had enough of it..."
It's 'cause my mind was sayin', "Fuck this shit."
But the checks was sayin', "Just do it."
So I just did it, but I looked a bit foolish
And I let down a big movement
So I took this battle for nothin' to remind myself why the kid do this
This for everybody that stuck wit' me when I went through it
I'll hold you hostage, in the basement, of the crib, stupid
No ropes or chains included
The plan was to duct-tape Glu' (glue), and I'mma stick to it!
Run down on me and get split ruthless
I'm talkin' carbon around his noggin
Literally split roofless
Yeah, he had his face covered
But my blade cutters split through it
Fuck a mask! The niggas that really go HAM'll tend (Hamilton) to Rip through it!
That's why I left gang at home, 'cause they prob'ly woulda clapped somethin'
Smack woulda been in the back frontin'
Like "Bro, get your fuckin' fam!
Alice in Wonderland: Chess, your (Cheshire) Cats buggin'!"
If you- YEEAAH!
I be thinkin' niggas ain't even gon' understand some of this shit, bro, for real!
If you don't see a gat bustin', I'mma stab, cut him, or MAC truck him
Don't chop it up - just chop him up
Don't ask nothin' - just axe somethin'!
I'm really on it
Don't have your shorty pullin' tricks if the trick important
Your bitch try to line me up, she get a coffin
This ratchet pointin' let her (letter) into a box: Wheel of Fortune!
He be talkin' 'bout movin' packs like he get it often
Well, get it off, then
He don't want smoke
Gunsmoke, the last thing we seen from the Mill like Wins & Losses
Stop judgin' my wins and losses
'Cause I been through shit I don't believe he had to
See, when you special, plus you a rebel, the Devil throw extra demons at you
I had the Reaper (Reepah) on my back like you in the Geechi battle!
He's not ready, Smack
I know I-
I done did a lotta bullshit, but come on...
What I said? Um...
I had the Devil on my back-
I had the Reaper (Reepah) on my back like you in the Geechi battle
Mini shotgun, squeeze it at you
I keep steel (still) wit' a sawed-off nose like Black people statues!
You co-
Y'all gotta think about it (x4)
Glu', you act really hard
We could stop rappin' right now and go scrap in the yard
But I'll kill him!
'Cause if I leave a victim, he gon' rattle me, y'all
I might have to endure a cell (Duracell)
They gon' hit me wit' a battery charge!
Yeah, he point first, but I'll pull first
He scared, though, so he want me in jail
All up in a cell, like when ya boo lurk
I hit you first, then you, jerk
Then finish the round with 'Eazy like a Mook verse
Ruger clap
I'm shootin' back like you were the nigga to shoot first
Y'all finally witnessing murder (Murda) in the ring again...
Shit, all we need now is Tsu Surf!
The truth hurts-

Free The Wave!

The truth hurts
And this nigga too fake (toothache) like his tooth hurt
Wait...y'all tried to replace my work with Glu' work?
What, y'all thought the grass was greener on the other side...'til they found out that you turf?
(Wrap it up, wrap it up, wrap it up)
And what the fuck is- last four
And what the fuck is up wit' that dude Twork?
That nigga be soundin' like he is a gay bitch
"I'm strapped in!"
Yeah, a st-st-stud'll keep repeatin' that same shit
It makes sense
Strapped in, gay bitch, stud'll/stutter, repeatin' the same shit!
It makes sense!
Nu Jerooz, you hit-
Nah, CakeLyfe, man (*chuckles*)

Look, I might not have ever did Irving Plaza
But to the masses, I'm the rookie star
The...Michael Jordan of this class, and I could get a stack for the rookie cards
I take 12-gauges and pin heads like Hellraiser
You been fan, I still eat off whip like tailgaters
You in trouble, clown
My advice is "Keep a gun around"
I mean, it's nothin' now, but it could turn into somethin' like a funnel cloud
I don't fuck around
When I step on this stage, I'm fuckin' shinin'
Play mine, it's Dateline - I'mma catch you wit' this .9, and
Shoot you wit' my homie gun
Either way, you fuckin' dyin'
Danny told y'all I had a Black son
Well, won't be the first time I raise somethin' that wasn't mine!
Watch ya mouth!
I heard your shit - bitch, it's Oscar the Grouch
A 30-clip like a fertile bitch: I keep poppin' 'em out
Lemme catch Chess in traffic, I'm boxin' him out
I start bustin' out the window, like I got locked out the house
How they sayin' you one of the best in these streets?
We got a talker
Bitch, you Sesame Street
We die for ours like Paul Walker
Tell yo' bitch I'm a arsonist
She trip? I gotta spark her
She get hit wit' the .80, followed by somethin' crazy: she got a stalker!
You not at all-

"Followed by somethin' crazy"

Yeah

Y'all gotta give it up for that one
Y'all niggas is playin'...

She get hit wit' the .80, followed by somethin' crazy: she got a stalker!
You not at all tough
Front like you Deebo, Tyson
I'll uppercut you to 'A Whole New World'
Bitch, you Peabo Bryson!
Why they tryna gas him up?
So I can blast him up
I'm strapped up, masked up for the bands like Daft Punk!
This a Cake walk, and takin' me ain't smart
I'm startin' to think Smack want Chess to (Chester) kill himself like Linkin Park!
Bitch, my heaters spark
I get to dumpin' wit' the Smith n'
And make the Cakes fall like I'm jumpin' in the kitchen
But see, he gon' say he murderous
But every word of it's fake
I pull up wit' a stick by the seat like an emergency brake
I'm head honcho
P said he wanted you dead pronto
But after you get cut here (hair), you'll play better
Just ask Lonzo
Yeah, stronghold wit' the long nose: I tote Gonzo
Bongo! White gorilla, I'm from the Congo!
And you gon' choke...
That's why they think you a disgrace
And you won't ever let a white boy scream in your face
Carolina, man

-to SCREAM IN- nah, man

Let me make this message clear
I'm a real rider (Ryda), is Prez aware?
I jack boy, mayne (Jakkboy Maine), a Wesson air
Or this Snake get a MAC (Mack), my whole Franchise Prep-ped in here
Wait, wait, wait, wait
These'll (Diesel) be shootin' out if Jade told me she tried to flex in here
No, no, no, no, no
Try to son me and get sent to the Moon, the ex is here
No, no, no, no, no
Wavy still in Zombie Mode, one dome shot'll make his death appear
What else, what else, what else, what else
Oh, and Twork'll die behind bars
He's Strapped In...to an electric chair
He's a reflection of me and I'll break him if we get compared
If that's a mirror match, I just got bad luck for seven years
This gon' be the reason he lost
He can't channel me when I black like the TV is off
If I hear Steams in a war, the heaters go off
And it kick back like he leavin' the store without the sneakers
It cost more than he can afford
Y'all get it?
Wait, why you join Ryda team and he soft?
Oh, you one of them pussy niggas
That join pussier niggas, just to think you a boss
He ain't no monster, he just look like one
The Goonies only put him down cause they needed a Sloth
See, you guys is actors, you ain't no O.G., this "Goon" got it backwards
Fake nigga
Matter-of-fact, fake wigger
I'll get rid of Glue' easy (Glueazy); paint thinner
I spray niggas but I'm not afraid to punch
{stumbles}
I spray niggas but I'm not afraid to punch neither
We can stick to the hands or Glue'll get peeled off one finger
I catch you on any strip here
I'll wax Glue
Don't let me get near
I'll wax Glue
Don't let me get Nair
Don't let me get near cause I'ma step on you
{stumbles}
Cause I'ma step on you and he might just get shot
It ain't an icy watch when I put TECs (texts) on you
Put texts on you
Punch you in ya face muhfucka, I'll knock ya teeth out
Then release the mil' (Mill), I'm lettin' Meek out
Ain't nothin' to speak 'bout
Cause everybody knows what's up like..."Somebody just pull some weed out?"
{Smack calls time}
Cake Lyfe

Look I told JayBlac I was battlin' Chess so he started a GoFundMe
Ya mama had way too many kids that's the reason y'all so hungry
I bunch of lil' broke bummy bitches, see to me it's so funny
Cause every dollar I made off SMACK been dope money
You were the best Chess
Like we really thought you was next Chess
I will press Chess (chest)
If he's around I'll squeeze a round like a stress test
I ain't impressed yet
But cross the god I bless Chess
.9's spark, he'll find it in his heart, I left Chess (chest)
True story
At B.L.3 I said "You killed Saga"
I came up to you myself, like, "You a real problem"
Well bitch I lied
The whole time you rhymed I was outside
I ain't find out 'til later you cut a bottle and made meals out 'em
What you got the nerve to say? I ain't earned this battle?
Suck a dick
I was rappin' before you was born you stupid bitch
From street corners to ciphers
'Fore we knew you existed
I put two in a biscuit and make you a statistic
Blaow
Headshot, lay down when I'm shootin' the big shit
This here, go into gear like I'm usin' a stick shift
This shit trips me out
How could you hate on a fellow black man?
Bitch I'll hit yo' face with a backhand and you'll really be the face of the SMACK brand
Yeah, I'm a street cracker
Well crackin' the street a heat packer
MAC in the seat I'm back on SMACK like I'm relapsing
Yeah, we clappin'
And this is what I'm 'pose to do
Since you've been chokin' in this whole battle
Fuck it I'm a choke too
I'm out!1Embed