1 ContributorI should’ve loved a thunderbird Lyricshow do you tell someone that they’re the only person you could see yourself swiping through childhood photographs with?
people don’t just say those kinds of things
i’m sorry, i find it
difficult to articulate the nature of my love for you
difficult to tell you that i saw you in my dreams;
all godly and divine,
and with all your might you kissed me to sleep
and lulled me into bed.
i woke up and thought i made you up inside my head
i touched my lips
in search of a memory that hasnt yet been made,
my god, is this a dream?
reality only ever seems to make sense with you
and with you is a hope too far for me to reach
to live in a paradox is the closest you can get to living
the magic “grey” they speak so highly of
to live in a paradox is usually better loving,
anything that extreme is something to steer clear of.
what was that story you told me? the one where you love yourself to death,
why am i loved despite me being this cruel?
people don’t just ask those kinds of things
i don’t believe myself to be kind,
and that is perhaps why i am having trouble speaking
i’m sorry, i’m having
difficulty in articulating the nature of my love for you
let me start slow,
remember that night we danced in my room to tapes of frank sinatra?
it started slow,
like a heaven put on pause for a better cause,
or a kid losing their trust in destiny,
it was like almost knitting,
or the unspeakable urge to hold your hand,
it started small.
you remember what i wrote about you before?
missing you comes in trickles,
little droplets of your voice
that echo through me like a call for prayer on a cold night,
like a love whispered loud enough for the world to bow down to it,
and loving you,
loving you comes in waves
one after
another after
another after
another,
loving you happened like a revolution;
my father used to tell me about one
that started in the basement of a bar.
i wonder if they knew they were changing history
would they have carried on if they knew
or would they have sat on a chair made of unspoken thoughts
they thought would get somebody killed?
loving you came in tsunamis;
my mother used to tell me to pray,
i wonder if she knew why i wouldn’t
would she had still included me in her prayers
or would she have directed her ocean of a heart elsewhere?
loving you is the only eternal thing i never felt scared of,
i’m trying to say that
loving you is the only thing i know i would’ve chosen a million times over.
speaking of revolutions,
remember when we took that picture where we were both laughing with a flag draped on our shoulders?
if there is a promise i know i can keep,
it’s that i will never forget that day.
now i was never one
to love in hopes of being loved back,
but i keep having this urge to tell you:
“i love you because i can’t help it,
and if you love me back, i know i’ll excel at it”
i was never one
to miss in hopes of being missed,
but i keep having this urge to tell you:
“i miss you despite our impossibility,
and i’d chop the sky into a painting if it meant i’d see your eyes again”
i’m trying to keep it simple,
i know my thoughts are often better locked away unspoken,
i know i talk too much and dislike people who do,
i know i talk too little and blame it on my head,
i know i get too much in my head and
forget to let you in on the chaos.
i’m a hypocrite who can’t be helped,
and i love you too much for my tongue to muster
but we mustn’t speak in bodies,
honesty is best when it is spoken with pride,
and i carry mine on my wrists,
there are marks where there used to be shackles,
and flowers where there used to be veins,
i am both withered and ageless,
a paradox blessed with the honor of having you in both halves
i’m sorry, people don’t just say these kinds of thingsEmbed