2 ContributorsJust A Reminder LyricsBaby dry your weeping eyes
Just let me say you can carry in the way of the world
Like a true queen
Baby I'm not what you want
I want you to need
You've been travelling alone for so long
Let me be there
So i can hold you in my arms
Keep me safe from harm
Everytime you wonder baby
What's going on..
(chorus)
This is just a reminder, to tell you that i still care (about you woman, oh yeah about you lady)
This is just a reminder, to tell you that i believe (you're the only one who knows just how to say baby, oh yeah, you're the only one who enters my world when it's going crazy)
I remember all the time
How you use to read my mind
If I told you where I'd be
Girl you know where we were going
But everything's all different now
But I can somehow
We can turn back the time
Like it was nothing
Now I hold you in my arms
Keep me safe from harm
Everytime you wonder baby
What's going on..
See Craig David LiveGet tickets as low as $62You might also like(chorus)
This is just a reminder, to tell you that i still care (about you woman, oh yeah, about you lady)
This is just a reminder, to tell you that i believe (you're the only one who knows just how to say baby, oh baby)
So baby let's just take this madness
Throw it all far away
Still the one I love and will always be that way
Baby let's just take this madness
It keeps getting in the way
Don't want you to get away
Baby let's just take this madness
Throw it all far away
I don't wanna be alone without you girl
Not another day
Baby let's just take this sadness
Don't ever want to let you go
I can't let you go..
This is just a reminder, to tell you that i still care. (oh yeah, no, no no..)
This is just a reminder, (just a reminder) to tell you that i believe (you're the only one who knows just how to say baby, oh yeah, you're the only one who enters my world when it's going crazy)
This is just a reminder, to tell you that i still care (to tell you that i still care, yeah, yeah, oh no, no)
This is just a reminder, to tell that i believe (you're the only one who knows just how to say baby oh yeah, you're the only one who enters my world when it's going crazy)
Just a reminder..
To tell you..
That i still care baby.. (baby)
Just a reminder..
To tell you that i still care. (da na, na, na, no no, no)Embed