4 ContributorsShut-Up (Rules Of The Game) Lyrics
Alright, everybody shut up
I said shut up!
I said shut up, or the next person who talks is gonna do a thousand laps!
Now, are you ready to play the game? (Yeah)
Now, are you ready to play the game? (Yeah!)
Do you know the rules of the game? (No!)
Well, now we're gonna learn how to play the games by the rules
Are you ready?
Well, a one for the money, two for the show, three for the winners, come on, let's go

Now, some of yous are wonderin' who I am
Well, I'm more important than the king of Siam
I'm your coach, Juny Boom's my name
And these are the rules of the game
In life you rise, in life you fall
In life you bounce like a basketball
Just watch this ball going up and down
But this is how you get around
The object here is always the same
You must make points to win the game
But you just can't go running 'round like a fool
You have to learn the play the game by the rules
'Cause you will look silly with all the pros
And that's when you hear the whistle blow
So you better jump when you hear this sound
You might also like

Now, the first thing everybody knows
Is you gotta go out and get the right clothes
You can't go out there lookin' like rags
Make sure you got Pumas and your pants don't sag
Look at this guy, he can't lose
'Cause he's got blue suede tennis shoes
Now, look at that gal up in the bleachers
She's got on her high-heel sneakers
Now, here's some winners you can bet
They can go to the game or the discotheque
Of course, you've got to have your whistle


The first technique we are going to learn
Is how to make the rubber burn
This is a project very worthwhile
You have to learn how to play with style
Let's start with bringing the ball down court
Now, that's a tough job in any sport
It's just like dancing when you dribble and move
You gotta do it in the rhythm and stay in groove
Behind your back, through your legs, don't fall
Your dancing partner is the ball
But just remember that the dance will end, when

Now, the next situation we are going to try
Is learning to get past the other guy
Let's say this fellow is eight feet tall
And can put you in the basket right along with the ball
So, you try to tell him that his shoes are untied
And he smacks you in the head, because you lied
This guy is really one tower of power
So, the next stop for you will be the shower
The lesson here is easy to be seen
Make sure the biggest guy is on your team
And if you need protection, then


Everybody, let's get that fast break
Everybody, halftime's almost here
Everybody, we know we got to win

If you try a move, then don't you think
Or you'll just be another fink
Guy there's making it look easy as pie
Just go with the flow and let the ball fly
Don't you get yourself all worked over nothin'
Or out of you will be beat the stuffin'
The major jam you cannot resist
Throw it to your buddy and get an assist
You got the inside shot and outside too
And, of course, you full court booga-boogaloo
Just make sure you stay inside the court

Now, I can tell you're really gettin' hot
So now, we're gonna work on making a shot
I said a hip, hip, the hippity hop
If you can't make the shot, then you better stop
Twist and shout and the folks might cheer
But if you miss, they say: "Get out of here!"
Or when you get down there, sure enough
There's always some dummy who'll mess ya up
Now, if you forget about the clock
You might run into doors on lock
So, remember: when you are on the floor
Score!


Everybody, we're up by ten
Everybody, you know we got to win
Everybody, let's take that trophy home

Now, you've got a shot to make the girls look
Zip it over your head,  and that's a hook
You say you are a 
Fake that guy and do a bounce pass
You're that number one giant with tons of funk
Release through the air and do the dunk
You're a rockin' mover who's got the stuff
You must be the one to do the lay up
Are you one of those players who like to bet
On how many times you can touch the net?
But what is everybody out here for?
Score!


Now, you know when your thirst starts to quench
That's when it's time to hit the bench
Don't go down court a-hesitatin'
Just act like you are rollerskatin'
When two  it's hard to see
How many of your men are gettin' free?
Drive it strong, that's what I say
So you can get that three-point play
Now, pushin' or shovin' just won't do
'Cause you're not special, you can foul out too
Just don't go in to overtime


Hey, let's get down to the real nitty-gritty
How you make points if you live in the city?
If you're from LA, do the bop
If you're from Philly, you're the top
If you're from San Juan, you can move
If you're from Miami, you've got the groove
DC or Detroit, you've got soul
If you're from New York, I'll call the roll
Roll call!

Roll call
Manhattan, say "Gotcha!" (Gotcha!)
Queens, say "Oh yeah!" (Oh yeah!)
Brooklyn, say "Yoo!" (Yoo!)
Staten Island, say "I like it!" (I like it!)
Bronx, scream! (Whoo!)

Now, we're gonna get down with the referee
You'll have to learn the penalty
In life you lose, in life you win
In life a foul is no way to begin
Like when the money makin' is gettin' hard
Charge on the game and charge on the card
What's a block? That's easy to say
It's your hand if you get in the way
So, make you sure when you run about
That you don't collide and foul out
It's tough luck when you hear this sound


So, play the game and don't you jive
Just turn and give your teammates five
Don't shoot for stardom or shoot for fame
Shoot to learn how to play the game
And if you miss before the buzzer sounds
Always go after those rebounds
'Cause you don't always have to swish
If you make your points, then you've got the wish
It doesn't matter what you do
And as long as you get the big two
Now you know the rules of the game!
Embed