26 ContributorsWhy Don’t You Love Me Lyrics
Now, now, now, honey (Why)
You better sit down and look around (Why, why)
'Cause you must've bumped yo' head (Don't)
And I love you enough to talk some sense back into you, baby (You)
I'd hate to see you come home, me, the kids (Love)
And the dog is gone (Me)
Check my credentials
I give you everything you want, everything you need (Everything you need)
Even your (Why?) friends say I'm a good woman (Why?)
All I need to know is why? (Why?)

Why don't you love me? (Love me)
Tell me, baby, why don't you love me? (Why don't you love me?)
When I make me so damn easy to love (To love)
And why don't you need me? (Need me)
Tell me, baby, why don't you need me? (Why don't you need me?)
When I make me so damn easy to need? (To need)
Mm (To need)
Oh

I got beauty, I got class
I got style, and I got ass, huh
And you don't even care to care
Look here (Ah-ah-ah-ah-ah)
I even put money in the bank account
Don't have to ask no one to help me out
You don't even notice that
You might also like
Why don't you love me? (Love me)
Tell me, baby, why don't you love me (Why don't you love me?)
When I make me so damn easy to love? (Easy to, to love me, lo-lo-love me, love me)
Hey, yeah
Why don't you need me? (Need me)
Tell me, baby, why don't you need me (Need me)
When I make me so damn easy to need? (Ooh, ooh)

I got beauty, I got heart
Keep my head in them books, I'm sharp
But you don't care to know I'm smart
Na-na-na-na-na-na-na
I got moves in your bedroom
Keep you happy with the nasty things I do
But you don't seem to be in tune (Ooh)

Why don't you love me? (Love me)
Tell me, baby, why don't you love me (Why don't you love me?)
When I make me so damn easy to love? (Easy to, to love me, lo-lo-love, lo-lo-love me, love me)
Hey, yeah
Why don't you need me? (Need me)
Tell me, baby, why don't you need me (Need me)
When I make me so damn easy to need? (Ooh, ooh)
(Nothing not to love about me)
There's nothing not to love about me
No, no, there's nothing not to love about me
(No, nothing not to love about me)
I'm lovely
There's nothing not to need about me
(Nothing not to need about me)
No, no, there's nothing not to need about me (No)
(Nothing not to need about me)
Maybe you're just not the one
Or maybe you're just plain
Dumb11Embed