2 ContributorsElite Control Lyrics(Compton RiLLO)
Collide with the enterprise, devil eyes, end a life, send demise
Recognize, I sever ties
To the old rules
Coal fuels my jet in flight
As I intersect right through heaven skies
They take six, and, seven die
I'm docile, paradox, I dox 'em
That's intended line of, coded script
Notorious as the ghost of BIG
(Compton RiLLO)
K.Dot, made my confidence gleam
Comptons king, properly got hip hop what it needs
Demolished the beat, and hypocrisy, if only pac could see
He set the blocks on heat, and conquered the streets
Colossal to me, a reply, surely, is impossibally
Hard to believe..
Call em deceased, any target n fleet, respond get defeat
Better pray to apostles that preach
Lyrically no stopping the beast
Velocity breached, a monstrosity what
I prosper to be, I'mma top prospect
Feature fostering feats
Drop n then reach.. Glock cocks
Opposites sleep in a box underneath
I just keep, toppling scenes
Tip em over, make, profit in streets
Getting colda, hitting quotas
You garbage and weak, I ain't the prophet you seek
I walk with this heat that I constantly keep
And that's word to Kendrick
He's John Walsh, yall, Coughlin MC's
I'm off in a key, coughing off weed
Strung wit a lung, Compton it breaths
Y'all need to adopt the disease
Fuck your forensics, my intelligence
Stops and then breaches
My incisions tear a doctor to pieces
I'm the nigga properly
Hated for unpopular reasons
I'm popping policemen, Fuck authorities creeping
And apologies schemed with non quality treason
Comp Be
Commonly leading, Project Z scheming
No boundaries where Were bound to be leaving
Bountily in a house elite dream with
Illuminate isosceles, beaming
As I sought to be breathing a prodigy
Prosperously fulfilling prophecy, Kareeming
Careening with anomalies of policy screenings
I scream this because my pockets deep with sorrow, in thesis
These is, bars of elite script
Because all life I was pieced shit
Keep shit, real that's why I break hearts into pieces
Follow me get hollowed by my authority reflex
Reflux I spit acid, wack rappers gobble and eat this
They Hate on it, it doesn't bother me keep gargling deep bitch
Go on and just speak shit
Ill leave u extinct into fossil for three Benz
I'm shitting on them, got them some depends
Can they hobble me, it probably depends
Are you top 23 list...
I'm, 24, score more shots on your defense...
In terms of bullshit, I'm Jordan your Rodman with bleached tips
You're a robin in sequence
Matter of fact, in the shadows, ya bones crack em wit a bat
Battle me I'm catching more than a battery, pack
Static get stacked, clap it and braaat
Rat tat tat tat on a rat then we bury in the back
Or, warn enemies and stand em on a plaque outside the camp
You might also like(Lo Luciano)
If beef is on the market we 'bout to invest in it...
It ain't the Midwest without the West in it....
So we align ourselves with Compton 'cuz it seems the best fitted...
Biblical comparable, lyrical, I'm blessed wit it....
So you can find me floating on clouds.....
Dropping blood on the ground from the thorns on my crown
Its raining blood, don't make me make it storm on your town
Lightening quick, I'll thunder kick your door to the ground....
Bitch nigga.... I don't give a fuck where you live....
Run up in your crib and put a fucking buck to your kids...
Let me rephrase that, I don't give fuck IF you live....
No latex or safe sex bet you ain't fucking with this....
Chalk outline this line somebody just died on it....
Actually if I have to think, I was crucified on it....
You should just commit suicide on it....
Spent my whole life at war... and I fucking thrive on it...
The captain of this ELITE squad...
Bow to these gods....
King of this jungle I'm running these blocks....
And thats concrete jungle for you dumb fucks.... shut the fuck up....
Lab or the streets I keep a gun tucked... who want what?
Middle fingers up, fuck all of you niggas....
And I ain't "coffin" when I smoke all you niggas....
Plus I know it bothers you niggas.....
To have nobody's outta nowhere body you niggas....
No biting shit, no burglaries just murder in the first degree....
Never heard of me and can't compare to a worser me....
Your rhymes are nursery, don't even deserve this verse from me....
My lyrics are a gift and that gift is still the curse of me.....
Even Kendrick can witness the rebirth of me....
Born ILL Cali bred, state of emergency
Your life's a cliff, the wrong step and your a goner
My life's a bitch so i cheated on her with karma....
Dickie suit armor on this Vietnam bomber.....
Youre not of my bother.... armada shot caller....
Sssshhhhhhh you better stay quiet....
Cuz you don't wanna wake the GIANT.... hahahaha
(Compton RiLLO)
Monolithic, drop opposition from the top position
I'm titanic, gigantic
Eyeing where your block is sitting, fly past it
Devise tactics to find addicts, i was born in the city
Where the cost of living make jobs of robbing and killing
And the best application is popping the clip in
Stop in and visit my nigga chuy, don't think
I've forgotten to mention, I know you walk with us
Outline these chalks with us, Compton is witness
We back on the map, salute from Compton to Kendrick
Fuck with the hub y'all oxygen's ending
I'm subconsciously rendered responsible for
Dropping extensive lines of eventful shocks not expected
I'ma shark, better, guard where ya crest is
Your star start? My job is to end it
I'll put you in a plot in a second
Jab jab, come and box with a legend
Get a box for your thoughtful intentions
You're a speed bump as I'm
Making a path across this attention to engloss his ascension
You're a moth, I'mma mamoth of a massive and prosperous faction
In the wise of.. analyzing talent
I divide the challenge, in fours
Me and my squadron bombing the fractions into fragments
Then stash them in the mouth of rappers that spit garbage
And bag it, they targets I'm bashing
My actions they can hardly imagine
Lets leave it at that bitch, let us contemplate
I eat ya like cabbage, and that's it
Bridges beam, as my complicity is eliciting what the gifted be
In the streets they feel the electricity
(Serg)
They call me Serg cuz I'm such a shock to you niggas
Don't say a noun or a verb, or I go K.Dot on you niggas
They been dying for my allegiance
I've been dying to rest in peace'em
They even committing treason and that's the reason behind hunting season
Ceasing the breathing by causing distinct extinction
You get disconnected
By my misuse of the second amendment
This rhyming is a blessing
My alliterations express it and these metaphors address it
Package up a bomb and in your direction I'll address it
Any niggas competing wit us is destined for second
Eating at the table you niggas scouring for seconds
I can rap for hours in seconds
Judgement time it beckons and guess who's in charge of wrecking
All hell has been reckoned
And it's ok if Kendrick
Proclaimed himself the king of New York
Cuz I'm Midwest where hunting's sport
And these rappers I'm hunting of course
These niggas ain't fucking shit, like they never did anal
And if you took that anal the next bars gone be fatal
Like a baby in its cradle
Just Counting yo sheep
Time to put you to sleep
More like 72 inches deep
They say word can hurt ya
Well mines committing murder
Thoughts are unheard of
Dropping a burner
And I ain't even warn ya
And I'm coming for you like excretion of semen
From the bitch I was fucking last weekend
The shark living in the deep end
If your life is like a movie this is Thee end
All about my green like them boys from south bend
Southern Cali, Southern Illinois like where's the south end
Dropping so much fire like when's the drought end
But it's only a response for those who doubted
They never saw it coming like a overdose on anesthesia
And all if a sudden they developing a case of amnesia
And fuck an award for the best in the metropolitan area
Cuz I don't need shit to say I'm the best in this topographical area
They can make affidavits out of every rap sheet
Cuz I can catch murder in the 1st, 2nd or 3rd degree
I can think of 4 important dates of Hip Hop
The death of Biggie and Pac
The verse of K.Dot and the day this shit dropped
And I respect the leader of black hippie
Only nigga who lyrically hit me
Not even directly diss me
But spark the rap game so swiftly
Sparking response
Niggaa ass hurt like they salad was tossed
Ego as big as my balls
Big as Rick Ross
Project Zero's Elite like them socks
Beating the Box
They underneath like some rocks
Times up bitch that was the last tick to your tock
Raising the bar beyond standards
More far then you can handle
And I let out the sickest shit
That's why they call me an assholeEmbed