40 ContributorsKing Back Lyrics
And the prophecy read
That one day, like the phoenix arose from the ashes
That a boy will be born unto a family in the slums
This boy will go on to use the knowledge he gained
While fighting for survival in the streets
To become a great leader
And in time, that boy will grow to become...
KING!

Hey, hey, hey, hey
Hey, hey, hey, hey
Hey, hey, hey, hey
Hey, hey, hey, hey
Time to ride, nigga
Just Blaze!

I welcome you to get acquainted with the youngest in charge
Respected from east to west like he was running the mob
Dictating, ain't taking orders from no one but God
I know you niggas is broke 'cause I know what you charge
You niggas wishing for a Phantom; it's one in my garage
It's black as legary, right next to the platinum Ferrari
You niggas ain't getting money off of rapping, I'm sorry
Fucked the rent up, went and spent up 60 large on a Harley
Is where you stay 10,000 square feet? Not hardly
Now, you see that we ain't able to compete, now, are we?
Ayy, pardon me—I'm giving you the West Side Story
Of the A, where I stay; niggas stay down for me
Wanna play? pack a gay niggas lay down for me
And get a order for killers to spray rounds for me (Ayy, ayy)
Competition, you ain't considered; you rapping, you boring me
You repping the A horribly—must I say? More importantly
See T.I. LiveGet tickets as low as $65You might also like
The king back! (Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey)
Nigga, the king back (Yeah, yeah, uh-yeah, yeah)
You better lean back (Ayy, ayy, ayy, why's that?)
Nigga the king back (Uh, aight, ayy, tell these niggas, what!)
The king back! (Yeah, yeah, yeah, uh-ayy!)
Nigga, the king back (Ayy, ayy, ayy, OH!)
Shawty you seen that? (What happened, my nigga?)
Nigga, the king back (Aight, let's tell these niggas, ayy!)

Ayy, man y'all niggas got me way too fucked up, you understand that?
What you need to do is, homeboy—
You need to go back and grab I'm Serious, you know
You need to get familiar with Dope Boyz and see where all these niggas got they style right now
See where that trap shit came from
Then you need to graduate to motherfucking In the Streets, Volume 1 through 3
Then you need to go to Trap Muzik
I got locked up for a second
Then grab Urban Legend
And that'll bring you up to speed, nigga

Who knew you could fit on your wrist a whole pound of diamonds?
I'm number one on the list while you clowns are climbing
Wishing to be in positions that you found that I'm in
Since you niggas do what I say, I'm world-renowned as "Simon"
If Jay handled the clay, and around the time
I deliver a bad day when four-fives is firing
I care the least about polices and the fireman's siren
Ambulances ain't gon' stand a chance at reviving (Hey)
DOA—that mean you be deceased upon 'em arriving
Paramedics yell, "Clear!" and your flatline silent
You ain't ready for out here 'cause the lifestyle violent
Think you is, you must be living on Fantasy Island
You make us mad, get your ass wiped out like Thailand
Hit for four like I went up and drained the three while you fouling
To say you want it with me's to go to war with the finest
Need you be reminded? Want it with Your Highness?
The king back! (Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey)
Nigga, the king back (Yeah, yeah, uh-yeah, yeah)
You better lean back (Ayy, ayy, ayy, why's that?)
Nigga the king back (Uh, aight, ayy, tell these niggas, what!)
The king back! (Yeah, yeah, yeah, uh-ayy!)
Nigga, the king back (Ayy, ayy, ayy, OH!)
Shawty you seen that? (What happened, my nigga?)
Nigga, the king back (Aight, let's tell these niggas, ayy!)

Ayy, man, I know y'all niggas in the trap every day, still, man
I know y'all niggas don't see nothing but the projects, nothing but bricks
But listen, make no motherfucking mistake man
I still will suit up my motherfucking self, AK and 45, nigga, on side, nigga, and come see 'bout niggas, you understand?
But I don't wanna do that 'cause I respect that shit y'all doing
I started that shit
I made that shit cool
I made these niggas want to be you, nigga
Nigga, respect this shit!2Embed