9 ContributorsTranslationsEspañolJosshe & andzas - #FriMarkedAsSpam (English Translation) LyricsLYRICS TO THE BIGGEST DISS IN HISTORY 😈INTRO
Jo-Josshe and Andzas made Fri switch to MxM
But what is the matter with this guy and IQ gaming?
And this one is an Editor? Hahaha
VERSE 1: ANDZAS
Are you feeling cold, Frialdad? (OUH!)
He plays smart, but he's nothing more than a Catalan cat (SHEESH!)
Two hundred thousand IQ he is going to reach
But he's getting cancelled, #FriMarkedAsSpam (cancelled.)
All day playing LoL, what a fucking loser
"Lol" is my reaction when I stumble upon your user (RIP)
All day editing. Turn on the lights!
You're gonna go blind from how little you shine
Don't cross, it's red. Be more attentive
You'll go from "Fri" to "gone" in the wink of an eye (HOW?!)
Your bio is more polished than your lyrics
I don't understand how you do it, but you never hit the mark
It's not your first diss, and there must be a reason
Today is the day to leave our coldness behind
It's time to show who we really are and raise our voice
Frialdad, goodbye, au revoir, adiós.
REFRAIN: JOSSHE & ANDZAS
Frialdad marked as spam (pboxxed)
Get a life, ma’am
Frialdad marked as spam (get gone)
Get a life, ma’am
VERSE 3: JOSSHE
So listen closely, Frialdad, and understand this
You're nothing, an apprentice. I am the king, I am the master
Give me my Editor or I'll banish you
You may have the forum, but I write your lyrics even while dead
The fire of my words, the heat of my flow
Get ready, Frialdad, 'cause it's time for the show
He thinkin’ he the best, but what he doesn’t know
What’s this part mean? Yeah, his tates I own
I'm the king of the game, they just playin'
I'll leave them in shame, they'll be prayin'
I'm the best in the biz, they just wannabes
I'll leave them in pieces, they'll be sorry (Sheeesh)
HOOK: JOSSHE & ANDZAS
Frialdad marked as spam (pboxxed)
Get a life, ma’am
Frialdad marked as spam (get gone)
Get a life, ma’am
BRIDGE: JOSSHE & ANDZAS
We don't care about the format. Your Editor is paid
Everyone at Genius Spain knew it for a long time
We're not conspiring, but your ban is waiting
You keep laughing, playing, and dreaming
Your account will disappear while you're eating
A couple of dicks, giving orders to those who are transcribing
Do you think you're better than the rest?
Orange is the color of fire, and listen to what I'm saying
What allows the stars to shine in the sky?
You depend on us, admitting it is destroying you
HOOK: JOSSHE & ANDZAS
Frialdad marked as spam (pboxxed)
Get a life, ma’am
Frialdad marked as spam (get gone)
Get a life, ma’am
OUTRO: DANIEL JOSÉ SANTOMÉ LEMUS
You're the worst, because you're the one who's come here the most
To laugh, to act respectful when you're a fucking ignorant piece of shit
And you dedicate yourself to talk about my work
Or about what I need or don't need, IDIOT!!!
YOU'RE DISGUSTING!!! THIS PIG IS DISGUSTING!!!
THIS FUCKING PIG IS DISGUSTING!!!
0 empathy, NO, WORSE than 0 empathy
It's repulsive, huh, it's repulsive for someone to come here and tell me what I should or shouldn't get paid
When I've been taken a bunch of money for fake shit, huh
Disgusting, Fucking pig! A fucking pig is what you are, IDIOT!
He's so disgusting, I swear, he's so fucking disgusting
There came a point where I couldn't take it anymore, his fucking shit-eating grin saying
"They wouldn't give you a fucking penny if they knew what you are getting paid" MORON
MORON!!! You're disgusting, you're fucking disgusting4Embed