9 ContributorsSeven Whole Days Lyrics
Seven whole days and not a word from you
Seven whole nights, ah, and I'm just about through
I can't take it, won't take it, can't take it no more
I had about enough of you
I'd rather be on my own, yes, on my own

Darlin', darlin'
You know if you cared anything about love
You woulda been front and center
Ooh, lovin' me and touchin' me
Honey, honey
You know if you knew anything about me
You woulda been much more tender
Ooh, squeezin' me, caressin' me

You coulda had about anything you wanted
But you messed it up
Ooh, you had to be tough
You told your friends you had me wrapped around your finger
You were talkin' kinda cocky like you had it goin' on
All the while you knew that things were kinda shaky
You knew that you were wrong
Dead wrong to be mistreatin' me
How can we go on?
You might also like
Seven whole days and not a word from you (Not a single word from you)
Seven whole nights, ah, and I'm just about through (What's a girl to do?)
I can't take it, won't take it, can't take it no more
I had about enough of you
I'd rather be on my own, yes, on my own

Sugar, sugar
You know if you knew anything about sweet
You woulda kept talkin' to me
Oh, every day, seven days a week
Baby, baby
You shoulda been givin' me a little more time
But you were just much too busy
Oh, abusin' me and usin' me

I woulda done about anything you wanted
I was there for you, I was crazy 'bout you
While I was sittin' thinkin' I was kinda special
You were runnin' 'round hittin' on every other girl in town
How could you love me when you knew you played me funny?
You knew that you were wrong
Dead wrong to be mistreatin' me
How can we go on?
Seven whole days and not a word from you (Seven whole days)
Seven whole nights, ah, and I'm just about through (What's a girl to do?)
I can't take it, won't take it, can't take it no more
I had about enough of you
I'd rather be on my own, yes, on my own (Seven whole days, oh-oh)
Seven whole days and not a word from you (And seven whole nights, yeah, yeah)
Seven whole nights, ah, and I'm just about through (Tell me, what you want?)
I can't take it, won't take it, can't take it no more (What you want me to do?)
I had about enough of you (I-I, I can't take it no more)
I'd rather be on my own, yes, on my own (Rather be on my own, yeah)

Deep in my heart, you were number one to start
But then you changed, you threw my heart away
Told your friend that you were runnin' things
Why'd it have to be that way?
You're wrong, dead wrong
Tell me how, how can we go on?

Seven whole days and not a word from you (Seven whole days)
Seven whole nights, ah, and I'm just about through (Woo!; Seven whole nights)
I can't take it, won't take it, can't take it no more (If you'd cared anything about me, you woulda been here lovin' me)
I had about enough of you (Seven days, seven days a week)
I'd rather be on my own, yes, on my own (Yeah, yeah-eah, seven whole days)
Seven whole days and not a word from you (Seven whole days, seven whole nights)
Seven whole nights, ah, and I'm just about through (Seven whole nights)
I can't take it, won't take it, can't take it no more (What do you want me...)
I had about enough of you
I'd rather be on my own, yes, on my own (To do?)
Seven whole days
Seven whole nights
What am I to do?
Ooh-ooh, ooh-ooh
Yeah-eah-eah, hey
Yeah-eah-eah-eah
Seven whole days
Seven whole nights, ah
I can't take it, won't take it, can't take it no more
I had about enough of you
I'd rather be on my ownEmbed