29 ContributorsStress Lyrics
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress

Pain, stress, my brain
Can't even rest, it's hard to maintain, the pressure
On my chest, excess frustration strikes
Blood rushes my head when I come across roads with dead
Mics and wack promoted shows, it's hard
But with the presence of God, I'm true to the game, so I'm back
Black, to take charge and recapture
The time, wish it could never be wack,  I'm pure
I insert my lifeline into the track, the energy in me
Is a poison with no unrevealed remedy
I'm spreading like leprosy throughout the record label
'Cause mines put me and Monch career in jeopardy
Can you come see me in the ghetto where it's dark?
Bullets are real, lost peeps lurks in the heart
Lord knows it hurts, we kick the Hertz to the curb
Execute first things first and put blunted minds to work
My herd's tight and my fans support
So I'm aight for the time being, seeing peace but taking no shorts
You might also like
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
(Crush, kill) Stress
Damn, man, it's rainin'
Yo, you wanna take the E or Long Island Rail Road? (Let's catch this cab)
Let's catch this cab, we'll split it
Ten, ten a piece, ten a piece
Ten a piece? Fuck it, that's cool
Let's catch this one right here, yo, yo, yo, yo, yo! (Yo!) Yo!
Damn, fuck
Yo
This one's empty right here (Yo)
Yo, yo, yo, money! (Yo, yo, yo, money!)
Damn
They on that shit (Here go another one right here, here go one right here)
Go right here, right here
Yo, yo, we goin' to Queens real fast, it's mad rainin' out here (Where?)
Yo, we goin' to Queens, yo
It's rainin', man!
Yo, I, I ain't goin' that way, man, I'm not— I'm just—
Come on, what you stop for, then? (Pussy-ass nigga)
Yo Prince, don't do that
Yo Prince, chill (Yo, chill, chill, man!)
Ahh
You will now consider me the apocalyptic one
After this rhyme, henceforth, there is none
No more will exist when I emerge
From the mist in whence I was born into, scorned
Most of you can't even comprehend what I am saying to you
Even in my human form the message I'm relaying
Why do you choose to mimic these wack emcees?
Why do you choose to listen to R&B?
Why must you believe that something is phat
Just because it's played on the radio twenty times per day?
My perception of poetical injection is ejaculation
The immaculate conception
The hall-walker who stalks bodies in Central Park
Soon, emergency services'll outline that body in chalk
Then I begin to walk away and spit
Then when I walk away, I talk shit, huh
A jogger sprayed my face with mace
She didn't know that I enjoyed the taste of radioactive waste
When I'm in the backseat of your midtown taxi
Don't even ask me for the cash, G
The four cabs before didn't pick me up
Now ask yourself who the fuck's gonna stick me up?

Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Crush, stress
Crush, stress
Crush, stress
Crush, kill, destroy, stress
Stress

Kill, destroy, stress
Stress
Stress
Destroy, stress2Embed