5 ContributorsGame On Lyrics*Carrie hears screams, leaves her room to investigate what's going on in the other room*
Female Mental Patient: Let me go! Leave me alone! Leave me alone!
Mental Hospital Orderly: Hold still! Get her on the bed.
Female Mental Patient: No! No! No! No, let me go!
Mental Hospital Orderly: Get her legs!
Female Mental Patient: Let me go! No, no, no! No!
*Doctor injects Female Mental Patient with sedative*
*Mental Hospital Orderly notices Carrie. Carrie rushes back to her room. Mental Hospital Orderly follows her.*
Mental Hospital Orderly: Everything in here okay? I'm not gonna repeat myself.
Carrie: Everything's okay.
Mental Hospital Orderly: This door stays open.
*Agent Fara Sherazi pours over financial records. Saul enters.*
Fara: Good morning.
Saul: Morning.
Fara: I did what you said. I followed the money.
Saul: The missing five percent.
Fara: Right. Turns out it's skimmed off the top once the funds arrive in Caracas at the HLBC subsidiary there.
Saul: Which happens when?
Fara: The third Friday of each month.
Saul: Tell me how it works.
*A montage of the scene in Caracas*
Fara: Well, first it's converted into small bills. Stacked on pallets, loaded into a truck and delivered in the dead of the night to the Estadio Capital where it's held at the box office until the next day and declared as receipts for the weekly football match. I bet you didn't know that Del Paraiso FC draws more fans on those Saturdays than they have seats in their stadium.
Saul: That's a hell of a way to clean money.
Fara: And lots of it. By our estimates, over $45 million during the last ten years.
Saul: So somebody's got a sidebar with the bank. Who? The owner of the team?
Fara: Probably. Except it's hard to know who that is exactly. The club is structured in such a way so as to shield the identity of its majority shareholder.
Saul: You got a candidate, though, don't you?
Fara: I do. Just not one that makes sense. Nasser Hejazi.
Saul: Say again.
Fara: Nasser Hejazi. Do you know him?
Saul: I know he played goalkeeper for Iran's 1978 World Cup team.
He's a legend there.
Fara: Well, it can't be that Nasser Hejazi.
Saul: Why not?
Fara: Because he's dead.
*Dar Adal enters the room*
Dar Adal: Who's dead? I heard you were in the building.
Saul: I left the DOJ documents on your desk.
Dar Adal: Yeah, I saw. You still want me to handle that?
Saul: Yeah. I'll be up in a minute.
Dar Adal: I'll be waiting.
Saul: Where were we?
Fara: Exactly nowhere.
Saul: Unless.
Fara: What?
Saul: Say I'm an Iranian official whose job it is to fund terrorist operations in the Western hemisphere.
Fara: Okay.
Saul: Say I'm watching all these bankers get rich on the deal.
Why not me, too?
Fara: Well, because you'd be taking a huge risk, for one thing.
Saul: Which is why I go to such great lengths to launder the proceeds, all the while hiding behind a false identity.
Fara: Like a goalkeeper's.
Saul: Right.
Fara: Still, if the Revolutionary Guard ever finds out you've been embezzling all that money
Saul: Maybe I'm getting to the end of my career. Maybe I'm looking to retire in style. Maybe I've always dreamed of owning a soccer team.
Fara: Javadi? Why Javadi?
Saul: Because it was his operation in the first place. Cause it makes sense that he was the one to approach the Venezuelan bank. And because Nasser Hejazi was his boyhood hero.
*Fara smiles*
Saul: Don't smile yet. Right now it's just a theory.
*Carrie brushes her hair in her room at the mental hospital. Her female lawyer enters the room.*
Lawyer: Morning, Carrie. How we feeling today?
Carrie: You have a brush?
Lawyer: Yeah.
*Lawyer hands Carrie a brush. Carrie furiously brushes her hair*
Lawyer: You sleep okay?
Carrie: Uh, yeah, fine.
Lawyer: So, I did a final review of your doctors and therapists, followed up with them last night. They all give you excellent reports.
Carrie: Do you have any blush?
Lawyer: You look fine.
Carrie: I look like a ghost. My dad and sister are coming, right?
Lawyer: Yeah, they'll be here. I called to remind them yesterday.
Carrie: Maybe I should just say I'm gonna go live with them for a while.
*Lawyer hands Carrie blush. Carrie furiously applies blush to her face*
Lawyer: I don't think that's necessary. The fact that they are committed to helping you transition back into the community is more than enough.
Carrie: Well, I don't want to leave anything to chance.
*Lawyer helps Carrie apply blush*
Lawyer: Trust me, we're not. Here, let me. So, the medical staff is first up. They will present their reports, take some questions.
Then it's the independent evaluator. His name is Walter Walker.
A friend, really nice guy. Then it's your turn.
Carrie: Then I go home?
Lawyer: Then you go home.
*Abby, the friendly hospital administrator, enters the room*
Abby: Carrie, it's time.
Lawyer: Okay. Oh, don't forget to tell the board how grateful you are for all of their help in your recovery. Makes them feel like they made a real difference.
Abby: Yeah, it always gets them.
Carrie: So, thank-yous all around. Yeah, I can do that.
*Abby, Carrie and her lawyer walk to the hospital's hearing room*
Nurse: Good morning, Abby.
*Abby, Carrie and lawyer arrive in hearing room*
Carrie: Where's my dad and sister? They should be here by now.
Lawyer: I don't know.
Clerk of Court: All rise. For the Sixth Circuit of the Commonwealth of Virginia, the Honorable Special Justice Robert Strauss.
Justice Strauss: Please be seated. Matter of Carrie Mathison.
Why don't we start with you, Dr. Maloney? I understand there's been an issue with the patient's medication.
Dr. Maloney: There was, Your Honor. I'm pleased to say it's been resolved.
Justice Strauss: Explain.
Dr. Maloney: I titrated her lithium dose in daily increments of 600 milligrams until a total daily dosage of 1,800.
Therapist: Carrie participates in daily group sessions and craft activities enthusiastically. She's demonstrated a real talent in ceramics.
Abby: She's been a pleasure to have on the ward, volunteering to deliver food trays, setting a good example for her fellow patients.
Hospital Administrator: And it is my opinion as an independent evaluator that the patient Carrie Mathison meets all the criteria for discharge today, with the one proviso that she continue therapy as an outpatient.
Justice Strauss: What do you say, Ms. Mathison? Do you feel well enough to go home today?
Carrie: Yes, I do.
Justice Strauss: And where is home?
Carrie: I live in Adams Morgan.
Justice Strausts: Alone?
Carrie: Yes, but my dad and sister are a quick 15-minute drive away and we see each other all the time.
Justice Strauss: They were scheduled to make an appearance today, were they not?
Lawyer: I talked with Carrie's father yesterday. They said they would be.
Carrie: If my dad says he's coming, he'll be here. He's probably stuck in traffic.
Justice Strauss: Thank you, Ms. Mathison. The members of this committee will now confer and come to a determination.
Carrie: Oh, and I want to thank everybody here for helping me. I'm forever grateful.
Justice Strauss: This shouldn't take too long.
*Leo gets food at the rehab facility cafeteria. He slips out the door to the stairwell, busts open a door and then runs into the yard. He hops a fence and gets into a car. Dana is in the driver's seat.*
Leo: Go!
Nurse: Mr. Crosby? Want to come with me?
*Carrie notices Dar Adal in the hospital, but her gaze is interrupted when the bailiff approaches her and her lawyer*
Bailiff: Ladies?
*Carrie and her lawyer re-enter the hearing room*
Justice Strauss: Please, sit. Ms. Mathison, I'm afraid I can't approve your release from this facility today.
Carrie: What? - Un-fucking-believable.
Lawyer: I don't understand, Your Honor.
Justice Strauss: I've just been handed a writ from the Justice Department.
Lawyer: Saying what?
Justice Strauss: That your client, in her current state of mind, poses a threat to national security.
Lawyer: Her current state of mind is excellent. Four mental health care professionals just testified to that fact.
Justice Strauss: The Government's worried she'll disclose classified information. Isn't that what got her into trouble in the first place? Violating Federal secrecy laws?
Lawyer: That was over a month ago, when she was off her meds.
Justice Strauss: And I'm inclined to agree with you, Counselor, but Ms. Mathison signed away some of her Constitutional protections when she went to work for the CIA. Is that true?
Carrie: Life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, among others.
Lawyer: Well, do we at least have the right to appeal?
Justice Strauss: Frankly, I don't know.
Lawyer: What do you mean, you don't know?
Justice Strauss: This is a new one for me, too, Counselor. Ms.
Mathison, I am sorry. But you've been designated a security risk.
My hands are tied.
Bailiff: Ms. Mathison? I'm gonna have to take you upstairs now.
Lawyer: I need a few minutes with my client. Carrie, I am going straight from here to the Circuit Court to file an emergency appeal.
Carrie: You're wasting your time.
Lawyer: You don't know that.
Carrie: Yeah, I do. Did you see the guy in the hallway right before we went back into the hearing room?
Lawyer: No. Who was he?
Carrie: Dar Adal. He's the former head of a group inside the Agency nobody likes to talk about. If he wants to keep me in here, then I'm not getting out any time soon. I need your phone.
Lawyer: You know I can't do that.
Carrie: I just want to call my dad, make sure he and my sister are okay.
*Lawyer hands Carrie her phone*
Lawyer: Make it quick.
*Carrie's father, Frank Mathison, is sitting on a patio eating lunch with a friend. His phone rings*
Frank Mathison: Ah, excuse me. God, I hate these things. Yeah. Hello.
Carrie: Where were you guys?
Frank Mathison: What do you mean?
Carrie: You were supposed to be at my hearing today.
Frank Mathison: I thought it was canceled.
Carrie: Well, who told you that?
Frank Mathison: I don't know, Maggie spoke to somebody last night.
Carrie: Was it Saul?
Frank Mathison: Uh, look, I don't know who it was. And, um, I'm-I'm not at home right now.
Carrie: Look, Dad, I need you to do something for me, okay? Saul's not talking to me anymore, so you have to.
Frank Mathison: What do you want me to tell him?
Carrie: Tell him that I give up. Tell him I-I can't stand another second in this place. I'm going out of my mind.
Lawyer: Carrie.
Carrie: Dad, t-tell him that I'll do whatever he wants, - just not this.
Lawyer: Carrie, please. I could lose my job.
Carrie: Okay, I gotta go. Call Saul. Tell him what I said.
*Carrie walks down the hospital corridor and sees the woman who was screaming in the first scene. She's now heavily sedated. Carrie gets back to her room*
Nurse: Perfect timing.
*Carrie takes her pills*
Nurse: Your nails have gotten long. We'll have to trim them later.
*Music plays in the car as Dana and Leo smoke a joint while Dana drives. Dana's cell phone rings*
Dana: Backpack.
Leo: Oh.
Dana: Front pocket.
Leo: Yep.
Dana: Who is it?
Leo:"Jessica"?
Dana: My mom.
*Leo throws Dana's phone out the window*
Dana: What the hell is that?
Leo: Hey. They can catch us with the GPS.
Dana: They're gonna catch us anyway.
Leo: Doesn't mean we make it easier for 'em.
*Music plays as Dana and Leo speed down the road*
*Jessica Brody and Mike Faber walk down the street toward the rehab facility where Dana and Leo met*
Jessica: Come on, Dana, pick up, pick up. Voice mail.
Mike: Here. Let me. Hey, Dana, it's me, Mike. Your mom and I are a little worried about you. Plus, she'd really like her car back, so give us a call so we know you're okay.
Jessica: "A little worried"? It's all I can do to keep from screaming at the phone.
Mike: Nothing's gonna happen to her, Jess.
*Jessica and Mike enter the rehab facility Administrator's office*
Administrator: Jessica. This is Martin and Lynn Carras, Leo's parents.
Jessica: Hello. Um, this is a friend of mine, Mike Faber. Do we know anything yet?
Police Officer: Not yet. It's early. Any idea where they might be? A friend's house, favorite hangout?
Jessica: I've tried everybody I could think of. Nobody's heard from her. All I know is that she's in my car.
Mike: It's an Outback. Blue.
Leo's Mom: If you would just report the car stolen, they could put out an APB on her right now.
Jessica: She didn't steal it. She said she was going to Trader Joe's.
Leo's Mom: Well, she was lying. Obviously.
Jessica: Look, Mrs. Carras, I want to find them as much as you do, and if there's anything I can do to help
Police Officer: It's not an official Missing Persons for 24 hours.
The State Police have a description, and they're aware that Leo's a fugitive from here.
Leo's Dad: A fugitive?
Police Officer: Most of the time in these situations, from my experience, kids show up after a few hours. They're out blowing off some steam. It's hormones, young love - come on, we've all been there.
Leo's Dad: It's not hormones. He's under a bad influence.
Jessica: Excuse me?
Leo's Mom: We know who you are, Mrs. Brody.
Jessica: Then you should know that my daughter is not responsible for what her father did.
*Leo and Dana are at a body shop, talking with a mechanic*
Mechanic #1: Your car for the Camry.
Leo: Yeah, maybe you throw in a little extra?
Mechanic #1: I just put a whole new transmission in that Camry.
It'll go another 100,000 no problem. That Outback? What, maybe another 20,000 it blows a rock.
Leo: Yeah, but the Outback's worth more in parts than a dozen new transmissions in that Camry.
Mechanic #2: This car of yours hot?
Dana: Yeah. We just carjacked it. We're natural born killers.
Mechanic #1: Do I know you from someplace?
Dana: I don't think so.
Leo: Uh, 200 bucks, it's a deal?
Mechanic #1: What do you say, Aurelio?
Leo: Is there a problem here?
Mechanic #1: You want to trade, it's car for car. None of this "$200 extra" bullshit.
Leo: Well, we can just go down the street.
Mechanic #1: I know you.
Leo: Deal. Let's go.
*Abby enters Carrie's room as Carrie lies on her bed still in her suit from the hearing*
Abby: Carrie? You just gonna lie there, or are you gonna get packed?
Carrie: What?
Abby: You're out. Carrie, you are out.
Carrie: I'm out?
Abby: By emergency order of the Sixth Circuit Court of Maryland.
Carrie: I can go?
Abby: Yeah.
Carrie: How the hell did that happen?
Abby: Who cares? Start packing. Go.
*Carrie starts packing her stuff up in the hospital room*
*Carrie enters her Adams Morgan townhouse. In her living room is Paul Franklin, the associate from the firm that's recruiting Carrie*
Paul Franklin: Don't be alarmed. I apologize for the intrusion.
Carrie: You. I should have known. Get the fuck out of my house.
Paul Franklin: Just hear me out.
Carrie: I told you before, no.
Paul Franklin: We went to a lot of trouble to get you out of that hospital. You can give me two minutes.
Carrie: If I had known, I would have stayed in the hospital.
Paul Franklin: I doubt that. But the furlough's only good for 24 hours anyway.
Carrie: So How did you arrange my release?
Paul Franklin: A judge we know, who, by the way, is more than willing to make it permanent.
Carrie: In exchange for?
Paul Franklin: A sit-down with one of the partners in the firm.
Carrie: That's all? Nothing's that easy.
Paul Franklin: You're probably right, but that's above my pay grade. My job is to get you to the meeting.
Carrie: Do I have a choice?
Paul Franklin: Why not at least listen to what the man has to say? What have you got to lose?
Carrie: When's this meeting supposed to happen?
Paul Franklin: Tomorrow. I can pick you up here.
Carrie: Okay, then.
Paul Franklin: Okay what?
Carrie: I'll sit down with him.
Paul Franklin: Good. I'll see you in the morning.
*Carrie packs her clothes up and heads down to her garage to hop in her care... but her car's not there. A neighbor, Helen gets out of her own car.*
Carrie: Hey, Helen. Have you seen my car?
Helen: Your car? What do you mean?
Carrie: It's gone.
Helen: That's strange. I haven't seen it in days.
*Saul talks to someone on the phone*
Saul: Which circuit court in Maryland? The sixth. Well, do they have jurisdiction over a County mental hospital in Arlington, Virginia? Okay, thanks.
*Dar Adal enters the office*
Dar Adal: Carrie?
Saul: Yeah, I just heard.
Dar Adal: She's angry and vulnerable. Right now, she could be saying anything to anybody.
Saul: Do we know who petitioned the judge to get her discharged?
Dar Adal: No.
Saul: Maybe it was her family.
Dar Adal: Not according to her father, it wasn't. The Agency's still weak, Saul. It could die of the common cold. And she's a full-blown contagion.
Saul: Find her. Get her off the street.
*Carrie attempts to take money out of the ATM, but a message tells her "Please see the Branch Manager"*
Bank Branch Manager: I'm afraid you can't access your funds and deposit at this time.
Carrie: I don't understand.
Bank Branch Manager: Your account's been frozen.
Carrie: It's been what?
Bank Branch Manager: Frozen.
Carrie: It says here, "By order of the Department Of Justice." You under Federal indictment or something?
Carrie: Not that I'm aware of.
Bank Branch Manager: I'm also instructed to confiscate any credit cards you may have in your possession.
Carrie: Well, those you're not getting.
Bank Branch Manager: Well, they won't do you much good anyway. They've been canceled.
*Carrie walks down the street, talking on the phone*
Carrie: I just need to get out of town for a few days.
*She's talking to Virgil, who's in his office*
Virgil: I can't help you there.
Carrie: Come on, you know I'm good for it.
Virgil: It's not about the money.
Carrie: What, then? My livelihood.
Virgil: You are radioactive, Carrie. I shouldn't even be talking to you right now.
Carrie: I've got no one else to ask.
Virgil: Well, you've got to make things right with Saul first.
Carrie: Well, I'm trying.
Virgil: He says that you went to the press. Oh, Jesus Christ, Carrie.
What are you trying to do-- get us all thrown in jail?
Carrie: No, I made a mistake. It won't happen again.
Virgil: I should fucking hope not.
Carrie: What about your van? Can I at least borrow your van?
Virgil: No, you can't borrow my van.
Carrie: Just for the weekend, to go up to the lake.
Virgil: Carrie, I can't.
Carrie: Virgil, please. I'm in trouble.
*Virgil looks to two federal agents who have been listening to the whole conversation in Virgil's office. The nod approval*
Virgil: Okay, fine.
Carrie: Great. Thank you.
Virgil: I just need it back first thing Monday morning.
Carrie: Absolutely, you got it. When-when can I come by?
Virgil: I'm going to be in and out all day. I'll leave the keys. Say hi to your mom for me.
Carrie: My mom? What are you talking about? Virgil?
*A look of fear crosses Carrie's face as she sees a black car with federal agents outside her house. She runs in the other direction*
*Dana and Leo sit at the grave of Leo's brother Philip. Leo drinks champagne out of the bottle*
Dana: In Xanadu did Kubla Khan a stately pleasure dome decree where Alf The Sacred River ran through caverns measureless to man down to a sunless sea. And then it goes on. It's kind of beautiful, though, huh?
Leo: Yeah, he would've liked it.
Dana: You think so?
Leo: He would've liked you.
Dana: He was one year younger?
Leo: Irish twins. Still. Guess it was my job.
Dana: What was?
Leo: To protect him. Isn't that what older brothers are supposed to do?
Dana: He killed himself. With a gun. It's hard to blame anyone but him.
Believe me, I should know.
*Jessica and Mike sit in Jessica's kitchen drinking coffee*
Jessica: Leave it to my daughter to fall in love on the psych ward.
Mike: I know some guys in the Arlington PD. I'll make some calls.
Jessica: Thanks.
Mike: You okay?
Jessica: I just can't seem to do one thing right anymore.
Mike: Hey, they were the ones who were rude.
Jessica: It's no excuse.
Mike: Come on. You're way too nice.
Jessica: No. I just almost lost Dana. So I know how they must feel. I should've just let you move in here like you wanted to.
Mike: Jess.
Jessica: You were always so good with her. So much better than me.
Mike: I'm not her mother. It was Brody who broke her heart.
Jessica: I could kill him, Mike. I swear to God, I could.
*Dana and Leo stand by the gates of an an Air Force base*
Dana: Can you guess?
Leo: It's where your dad was stationed.
Dana: And?
Leo: And I don't know.
Dana: Right there. Where those buses are. There was a long line of them. I was over there. The other side of the parking lot with Chris and my mom and all the other families. Chris was so freaked-out. He wouldn't let go of my hand. You know, everybody was hugging and crying all around us.
Leo: The day your dad deployed for Iraq.
Dana: There was a Marine band playing. And when my dad walked out with all the other guys from his battalion, you could tell that he was excited. He wanted to go.
Leo: He was some kind of sniper or something, right?
Dana: Yeah.
Leo: How old were you?
Dana: Eight.
Leo: Fuck.
Dana: But that's not why we're here. We're here because this is where it happened. The last true statement he ever said to me.
Leo: Which was?
Dana: "Good-bye." Everything after that was a lie.
*Carrie knocks on the door to an apartment. A Handsome Man answers*
Handsome Man: Hello.
Carrie: Remember me?
Handsome Man: You're kind of hard to forget.
Carrie: Listen, I know this is awkward, but, um I kind of need a place to stay. Probably I should've called first.
Handsome Man: Probably.
Carrie: Uh, but it's just for the night.
Handsome Man: Well, I got exactly one couch and one bed.
Carrie: Bed's cool with me.
Handsome Man: Come on in.
*Carrie enters Handsome Man's apartment*
*In the morning, Carrie wakes up. She takes money out of Handsome Man's wallet, and leaves the apartment to hit the street. On the street, a black car carrying Paul Franklin arrives. Carrie reluctantly gets in it*
*Saul and Fara look at a photograph of 5 men in suits and soccer scarves*
Fara: So it is him. Javadi.
Saul: That's him, third from the right. Jesus, he's gotten old.
Fara: Standing next to him is Edgar Cedeno. The banker we targeted in last month's mission.
Saul: When was this photograph taken?
Fara: 2009. According to passenger manifests, Javadi visited Venezuela exactly twice. Once at the time of this photograph and once in November 2003.
Saul: To set up the deal with Cedeno's bank.
Fara: Each time traveling under the name Nasser Hejazi.
Saul: His alter ego. He couldn't resist the joke. Now it's gonna bury him.
Fara: With your blessing, I'd like to open an OFAC investigation into his majority ownership position at the Del Paraiso Football Club.
Saul: No.
Fara: Why not?
Saul: Now's the time for patience. Don't force the pieces. Store them away.
Fara: But we have him. He's embezzled over $45 million from the Revolutionary Guard.
Saul: They get wind of it, they'll just put him up against a wall. They'll shoot him.
Fara: Good.
Saul: No. It's of negative value. He's second-in-command at the Intelligence Directorate, Fara. He ordered the attack on this building.
I need him in a room.
Fara: You want to interrogate him?
Saul: I want to rip him down to the studs. I want the name of every agent he's ever run in the United States. And I want to know just how close the regime is to a nuclear weapon.
*An elegant middle-aged white man, Leland Bennett, approaches Carrie in the sitting room of a stately Georgian mansion*
Leland Bennett: Ms. Mathison? Leland Bennett.
Carrie: What is this place?
Leland Bennett: The firm keeps it for our more privacy-sensitive clients. It's a pleasure to meet you.
Carrie: I tried to tell your colleague Mr., um
Leland Bennett: Franklin.
Carrie: Mr. Franklin, uh you're wasting your time.
Leland Bennett: Well, how do you know that when you haven't heard our proposal yet?
Carrie: I'm not for sale.
Leland Bennett: Well, we're not trying to buy you. Really. And no one's going to ask you to do anything you're too uncomfortable with.
Carrie: Well, I'm already uncomfortable.
Leland Bennett: It's up to you to draw the line you won't cross.
Carrie: For all I know, you're FBI and this is a sting.
*Leland Bennett laughs*
Carrie: What's so funny?
Leland Bennett: You have an active imagination.
Carrie: Well, somebody shut down my bank account and repossessed my car.
Leland Bennett: Your own Agency did that to you.
Carrie: Yeah, that's my point. I'm not going to jail.
Leland Bennett: It seems to me you're already there.
*Carrie looks around the room*
Leland Bennett: There are no recording devices or cameras in this room, if that's what you're worried about. Would you like to step outside?
*Leland Bennett and Carrie go outside to the backyard*
Carrie: Okay, I'm listening.
Leland Bennett: Our firm has longstanding relationships with several countries in the Middle East. We lobby on their behalf, quietly represent their interests here in Washington.
Carrie: Yeah, I know how this works. So what does your client want?
Leland Bennett: To pick your brain from time to time. Put you on retainer, as it were.
Carrie: Pick my brain? On what subject?
Leland Bennett: Your area of expertise.
Carrie: For example?
Leland Bennett: For example, he recently lost six business associates.
Maybe you heard about it.
Carrie: So this is Iran we're talking about. He'd like to know how those men were identified and targeted.
Carrie: That line you mentioned-- we just crossed it.
*Carrie starts to leave*
Leland Bennett: Ms. Mathison
*Carrie turns back around*
Carrie: No, I won't do it. Iran was behind the Langley bombing.
Leland Bennett: Which they carried out in retaliation for Israeli air strikes on their nuclear facilities.
Carrie: I reject the comparison.
Leland Bennett: Why? It's one military target for another. Iran takes great care in its proportional response to acts of aggression. An airliner for an airliner, a Mossad agent for a physicist.
Carrie: Sounds like you've drunk the Kool-Aid.
Leland Bennett: I'm a professional. I'm paid to make arguments, not wave a flag.
*Carrie starts to leave again*
Carrie: Good-bye, Mr. Bennett.
Leland Bennett: You'll be back in County lockup by the end of the day. Put there by the very institutions you're trying to protect.
Carrie: I'll take my chances.
Leland Bennett: Well, you know how this works. You said so yourself.
*Carrie stops and turns back around*
Carrie: Meaning what?
Leland Bennett: You familiar with the term "Controversialize"? No.
Well, that's what they're doing to you. They're turning you into the story. They started by leaking your relationship with Congressman Brody. Next it was Saul Berenson's testimony in front of the Senate Select Committee, then they had you committed. Pretty soon, it's not a story about a terrorist attack anymore or how the people meant to protect us screwed up. It's about you. It's about sex between a bipolar CIA officer and her brainwashed boyfriend.
Carrie: I'm not a traitor.
Leland Bennett: No. What you are is a liability to a lot of people who've got a lot to lose. So far, they've kept your name out of the press, but how long do you think that's gonna last? And what happens then? I'll tell you what. You're destroyed. You're a pariah. And in six months or a year, if you haven't killed yourself by then, they'll do it for you. You're naive to think they won't. You'll slip in the shower or they'll force-feed you lithium till your heart stops or they'll hang you on a doorknob and call it suicide. Let us help you, Carrie. We're very good at it.
Carrie: You can keep me out of the hospital?
Leland Bennett: I can.
Carrie: I'm broke. I don't have a dime to my name. You'll be compensated handsomely.
Carrie: Well, then, I never want to see you again, Mr. Bennett. I will see your client but only him and only face-to-face.
Leland Bennett: That could be a problem.
Carrie: His problem. And tell him I won't name names, either. I won't betray my people in the field.
Leland Bennett: That's between you and him.
*Carrie is tearing up*
Carrie: No, that is non-negotiable.
Leland Bennett: Okay. Think of it this way. Maybe you two can find some common ground. Put the world right. Save us all.
Carrie: Fuck you.
Leland Bennett: I'm sorry. Did you say something?
Carrie: Yeah. Fuck you.
*Paul Franklin and Carrie ride in a black SUV*
Paul Franklin: Mr. Bennett wanted you to have this as a show of good faith.
*Paul Franklin hands Carrie an envelope containing a stack of $100 bills*
Carrie: How would he feel about me buying a plane ticket to Southeast Asia and disappearing into the jungle for a while?
Paul Franklin: You might want to consider a car trip to Atlantic City instead.
Carrie: Why's that?
Paul Franklin: You're on the TSA no-fly list and your passport's no longer valid.
Carrie: Good to know. Thanks.
Paul Franklin: Have a nice walk.
*Carrie angrily exits the SUV onto the street*
*Mike arrives at Jessica's door with a file in hand*
Mike: Have you heard anything?
Jessica: No. What is it?
Mike: This. A detective buddy of mine got it for me. Leo wasn't in the rehab facility for treatment. His parents made a deal with the DA to keep him from being charged with a homicide.
Jessica: What? Details are sketchy, but somehow he managed to get his hands on his father's gun. Maybe it was a suicide pact, maybe it wasn't. Either way, the brother ends up dead, and this Leo walks.
Jessica: Oh, God.
*Dana and Leo sit in their new car. Dana wakes Leo up.*
Leo: Hey.
Dana: Hey.
Leo: What time is it?
Dana: Who cares? I just want to stay like this forever. You know, usually I wake up and I feel so strange. But today this is just perfect. I never want to go back.
Leo: Then we don't have to.
*Carrie and Saul's wife Mira walk onto Saul's deck.*
Saul: Carrie.
Carrie: Saul.
Saul: Give us a minute.
*Mira goes back inside the house*
Saul: What are you doing here?
Carrie: Don't worry, I wasn't followed.
Saul: Are you sure?
Carrie: Yeah, I'm sure. I used every trick in the book. It took me over five hours to get here. I'm alright. It worked, Saul. They picked me up this morning.
Saul: Who did?
Carrie: A man named Franklin. He took me to a house in Potomac, where I met with Leland Bennett.
Saul: The lawyer.
Carrie: Yes.
Saul: What did he say? What did he say, Carrie? What were his exact words?
Carrie: He said his client recently lost six business associates and would like to know how those men were identified and targeted.
Saul: Javadi.
Carrie: It has to be.
Saul: Did you hold out for a meeting in person?
Carrie: I did it just the way you said. I told Bennett the meeting had to be face-to-face.
Saul: And he went for it? You're an amazing person, Carrie Mathison. Amazing.
*Carrie starts crying*
Carrie: I don't know.
*Saul wipes away Carrie's tears*
Saul: You've been very, very brave.
Carrie: You should've gotten me out of the hospital, Saul.
*Saul hugs Carrie*
Carrie: You shouldn't have left me in there.
Saul: It's almost over.
Carrie: No, it's too hard. I can't keep going.
Saul: Yes, you can. Yes, you can.
*Saul and Carrie make their way into Saul's house*
Saul: Come on in. Mira'll make you a nice cup of tea. Come. Here. Here.1Embed