1 ContributorWe Dem Goons (SL Cypher) Lyrics(Kasino)
Hearin’ all this Buzzwole about SL (bitch)
Keep your trap shut like a fuckin Clampearl
Hurllin’ Flame Orb bars. Fuck your Magic Guard
I’m Cosmic with the stars and your just a Magikarp
You’re softer than a Caterpie, I'm harder than an Aggron be
I'm aggro on this beat like Aggron vs a Ribombee (Ribombuhbee)
PoGo when I poke hoes. SL as the logo
Loco Ludicolo, and I’m ridin round on my Acro
I'm blazin’ I'm bulkin’ then pass it up Combust on this track I just blew up
But I stay Icy like Avalugg. Ice on my wrist I'm stayin’ cool
Stay in game, call me a fool (Meinfoo)? Splash on ya bitch like Buizel (Bu-i-zel)
I'm crittin’ I'm slashin’ I'm lethal. Then I come back like a sequel
I spit that fast fire, flash fire rapid dash to that cash (money!)
SL come to take the stash
Rocket grunts and you don't wanna see us spaz
Zip it up; body niggas head to toe Nosepass
We dem goons
Think of plans and u know we carry spoons
Fuck the cops Officer Jenny I'm that dude
We peek at chu. Get caught in the trap We get to sparkin’ no Pikachu
No you can't have your mons back. King of this shit we cut no slack
We dressin’ up but with no slacks. Phat on my back like a Pignite
Eatin’ up we havin’ pig tonight. I'm super fly you need Kryptonite
Killin’ myself like a Dragonite. Missing my bars cuz I'm holding bright
You might also like(Osiris197)
Don't step to me bitch, I spit this fire like a Heatran
And this dudes lookin’ kinda girly, I think He-A-Tran
My flow One-Hit KO's fam, I'm strong I got that Choice Band
I'm a Hard Stone on the beat, and y'all some muh fuckin Soft Sand
Stay on my Tempo, lame Swagger it don’t phase me
Like Mewtwo in the movies, none you bitches can contain me
I'm out to bust a Seedot, yo bitch ain't tryna make me Bide
Discharge leaves her stunned, and you know we get it Synchronized
My Wood Hammer hittin' hard, call that a Pain Split
Got Whitney cowgirlin', man I swear that ain't no Plain shit
Osiris-Team Galactic, out this world on some insane shit
Like IV's and Hidden Power boi, there ain't no way to change it
I got you Rattled, Foul Play is what I'm 'bout son
Don’t flex them Swords on Umbreon, cuz you won't like the outcome
These haters shadin' me, I leave 'em Ghost like a Dusclops
That's cuz my flows more deadly, harder, sharper than Kabutops
Bird Gang! Skyla Roostin' n Bouncin' on my cock now
Hittin' Acrobatics, gimme Tailwind 'til I pass out
Chesnaught, but you ain't Bulletproof, no you don't wanna see this
Thats cuz I'm Plottin' Nasty, arms out like Cofagrigus
With every stat I'm powerful, with every element masterful
The likes of Arceus ain't shit to me, and you ain't even Null
I'm Schoolin', you Wish you was me, No Wonder I'm Guarding with my Shields Down
East Side Johto, 197, you just heard it from a god now
(Sunfish)
Hey, it’s Sunfish from Book Surprise to Smash Bros to Pokemon
I change form like Castform, Check the weather, it’s sunny out
I move in on yo girl, tell me stop, ”it’s cool” Fake Out
Take her to my place make her squirt squirt Water Spout
Get bitches off their high horse, let me help you out, Smack Down
Fight me, catch these hands, I fuck with Brawly, Rep Dewford Town
Got me a clean Bulk Up, Machamp jelly of my hot bod
Sliding in these DM’s, got Whitney callin’ me Goldenrod
Fuck the False Prophet I’m Sweepin’ haters with my Jolteon
Thunder to Volt Switch, I hope you Sturdy as shit, Magneton
I trash teams with my trash memes like steel beams and Vikavolt
Don’t be sleepin’ on my Bug, I’ll show you why he’s called Usain Thunderbolt
Night Daze knocks your lights out, Sucker Punch leaves you Wheezing
Mind your business or to Mt. Pyre you be leaving
Jailers tryna ask me for my last meal before Murk-row
I’m like “Bite me, bitch I’m the fucking Head Honchkrow”
Stoned as shit with my rocks out, I’m your Geodude
Speed up, Rock Polish, if you know what I mean, A-Suh-Dude
Sudowoodo SWOO on these hoes, call me rude, But the
Only Bae hard enough for me is Olivia. SEND NUDES!!!
Stunfisk in the crew, Scrubbin’ Out, Lordin’ Over all these
Other KEKleons that think they clean, Rotom-Washer
It seems these fools had a Slow Start, lemme break it down
I spit the Sacred Fire that puts the OH in Ho-OH
(ColdWeatherr)
Switch it like Sawsbuck, yeah tis the season
SL boys Nasty Plot to take over the region
Cold got that Snow Warning flow to leave you freezin’
People Hail me and any other act considered treason
You sayin’ that you hard, I don't buy that shit-Embargo
You weak armor, Magcargo, see right through you like Lucario
Chatot ass niggas mouthin off no I’m not the one
Knock you silly Locked On with that TM01
Got your chick, she Torchic, she's with us straight Hoenn
You'd think we're up in Foretree with this hidden power we showin
Like Xatu with the foresight  how we already knowin'
We'll be Electrode when it's all done the way we gonna be blowin' up
When this Boomburst through the airwaves, send your mons into a craze
Magikarp get they levels raised, Gyrados start to rampage
Y’all in for some dark days when you’re under our wing like Remoraids
Encore DJ Mary so she bump this shit on replay
And I don't play, I just win, game corner think I'm cheatin'
Snorlax while y'all Slaking, boy you could say I'm eatin'
Handin out Quick Claws with the shit I'm teachin
Violet, Jubilife, Rustoboro, I'll school you in any region
My bars Grimey like Muk slime, go hard when it's crunch time
Like a Swalot how I'm belchin eatin weak niggas for lunchtime
Ice type but you know I'll always Poison Touch a beat
Rep the squad so I gotta Rock the purple like Lileep
(Vamp)
Enigmatic
New trainer who’s come to claim the badges
Not bragging, but I 6-0’s the dude who made a passin’
Remark about my passion
He showed his team I just looked at him
Smiled and said let’s battle
Fast forward boy you know I wasn’t the one to be toyin’ with
Flow Solgaleo so you know my whole team is lit
I rock that Aegislash so it’s top tier in my Defense
Goin’ off like Donphan using Rollout off a cliff
I’m tired of these boys. Unown lames keep jockin me
Geodude, what’s stopping ‘em?
You know damn right well they ain't as popular as me
Unstoppable force like Groudon under my feet, quit knockin defeat
Using Missingno. to get Mew that’s an incredible cheat
They call me mean but really is that true?
Slowking sensing something coming from the likes of you
Your bars stink like a Skuntank bottled up as perfume
Though my Own Tempo slow, it’s also Litten too
Got the Alakazam for the Focus Blast
That’s concentration when I rap
That Dizzy Punch, that Double Slap
Got you lost, where the Town Map at?
Competition, non-existent
You’re a second, and honorable mention
Tensions rise, cuz I’m the best, you can’t contest it
Snorlax Chesto Berry Rest, I’ll check you into the Old Chateau
Grab your lasses Youngster Joey from the classes yo
Bout to take you back to Kanto ridin’ on Tauros
Should have picked a better way to approach me, now watch me get ‘em
They call me Honchkrow, should have known that I’m a mobster
Disrespecting catch the horseshoe Rapidashin when I stomp you
I cock the Glock, fire and dock it, call that a Pocket Monster
Searching for the cure for Pokérus I’m a master, not a doctor
(Vamp)
I'm in a different dimension like Palkia
With my prankster Murkrow we will be stalking ya
Chalking your loss up to par hacks and clauses
The root of it all is the 6-0 nostalgia
(Vanilla)
Young Vanilla and I’m ridin’ the beat
Even when you slow it down I’m tryna reach my top speed, Mach B
Top me? Yeah right, I’m tryna not lose. Lookin for that W
How many wins I got man? Double you
Getting Double Slapped, even more than double that
1 2 3 4 5 and you getting clapped
Rattata is the sound of the semi-automatic
Heard me once now you’re back in this heat like an addict (attic)
(Vamp)
Look fella you no good I'm stellar who’s better than Vamp?
Faulty strats pleasure me
Presents for Delibird whether the weather is
Hailing or I'm in a Sunny Day
Charged up with my Solarbeam fam I'll murder this shit any day
Praying to stars Arceus can't save you look Nebby just get into the body bag
First turn they caught wind of my skill. I'm broken I'm fast prime meta Excadrill
You guessin you guessin don't question, I only need 3 Pokémon fool to best you
SL we wreck crews
(Vanilla)
Kasino hit the slots Celadon of the Rockets
197 Tailwind you tryna stop it
Coldest weather severe Blizzard Ice so hard he rocks it
Sun that son with the gun, wait until he cocks it
Click clack with the Kling Klang
The Steel make a big bang
Yeah they Elite they my gang they my four
And the Champion Vamp out for blood like a Gliscor
(Vanilla)
Bitch I'm wylin out, salute, tribute to Oranguru with my dicks out
Yo girl and I will have a hell of a time when she come around and we Bellsprout
That's #69, she can work the Vine when I Whip it out with that Power
Honey your man is a coward, you can Relax, baby I'm Sour
They hatin’ us, I wrote 'em (Rotom) off. They frees (freeze) now, they washed up
I'm in the cut and I blowed ‘em off, they normal forme and I'm hot stuff
Any forme of that Rockruff, all day, all night
I'm all hype, you're alright, you're all Snarl, I'm all Bite
And I'm Strong Jaw, bust up in the door, lock in the throat that'll make you choke
I'll sin and roar, comin’ in hot with the chop to the throat that'll make you choke
Release your whole team, you ought to just Throh Machoke
But it still be on some Mime Jr. shit, man and it's a fuckin joke
We takin over like Saffron, no Liepard but I got my swag on
Too tricky like Acro, Protean, everything I got STAB on
Knock Off any item you have on. Sticky Hold couldn't grab on
Comin in clutch with the sash on, live any hit and I'll Meteor Mash on
Yeah I'm too out of this world. Getting’ too many these girls
Snatchin them then I be Smashin them givin’ ‘em Platinum Diamond and Pearls
Now really there isn't Distortion so don't go blowin’ it out of proportion
I'm legendary like Mew, and really you're only a failed abortion
Me and my rap dudes, we squad up like Tapus
Pickin’ up pussy like packs of Zigzagoon
Who even Axew'd man? What are you even saying?
I’ma save this game and quit playin
Y'all are about to witness a murder, hate and I'll murder you
Talkin' all that shit, I'm Soundproof, I've never heard of you
Don't gotta Diglett underground and get the dirt on you
I'll put the hurt on you, Prankster, GANGSTER. When I murk on you
I'm double barrel like Blastoise, Rhyperior wreckin’ and I'm settin’ the rocks
Two shots turn to four shots. Toucannon Toucannon. Just two? Cannot
I kid you not, breed with your girl with my destiny knot
Kid'll be 6IV Shiny and Japanese, I'ma still make my leave exit like Golscipod
Y'all saying I ain't have bars, like I ain't had bars
Like I ain't flip bars, Rage Candy Bars
And I stay rippin, spittin Litten flames like I'm Magmar
Stay on top of these stat charts, fuck you up like you're a bad cart
Knock your top down like you a Malamar, try and tell me I ain't Rock Hard
I'm Pimpoleon, none of my are penguins dandy
Your girl be on Ambi, lemme double hit and then gave me a handy
Your boys are some randys, I leave 'em like Spoink when they standing still
Roll up the candy, Phanpy. It's going Hippowdon, sandy
The girls they be beggin for bone and an Overcoat now they be lookin like Mandy. God damn it
I ain't dark but I'm fly, I'm in and out, U-Turn of Tornadus-I, I mean Tornadus-T
Wearing AV. Say that you're special what's that mean to me? Hurricane blowing through all of your leaves
Yeah that's right because I'm hitting the trees. Regen recoil the damage is free
What the fuck you mean? Is I'm breeding Miltank, I'm making the cheese
Trickiest keys, what's up my sleeve As I go through ‘em free and I’m making ‘em freeze?
Sheer Cold, and the KOs, they beg and they say to me "Arceus, please!
No no to the 6-0!" You ain't sturdy boy, you got some weak knees
And every win you got is like a fake leak or raising Chikorita, that's MAKE BAYLEEF (make believe)Embed